来源文件：12Towards trustworthy blockchain systems in the era of “Internet of value” development, challenges, and future trends.pdf
============================================================

【第1页】
SCIENCE CHINA
Information Sciences
May 2022, Vol. 65 153101:1–153101:11
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11432-020-3183-0
c⃝ Science China Press and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2021
info.scichina.com
link.springer.com
. POSITION PAPER .
Towards trustworthy blockchain systems in the era of
“Internet of value”: development, challenges, and
future trends
Hai JIN & Jiang XIAO*
National Engineering Research Center for Big Data Technology and System, Services Computing
Technology and System Lab, Cluster and Grid Computing Lab, School of Computer Science and Technology,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China
Received 5 November 2020/Revised 20 December 2020/Accepted 3 February 2021/Published online 18 October 2021
Abstract
Since the advent of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, blockchain, as their underlying technologies,
has drawn a massive amount of attention from both academia and the industry. This ever-evolving technology
inherits the “genes” of distributed systems, oﬀering signiﬁcant advantages of immutability, transparency,
auditability, and tamper-resistance. These beneﬁts help blockchain re-establish public conﬁdence, and hold
the signiﬁcant promise of reliable information sharing and value transfer. Therefore, blockchain has become
the foundation of crucial strategic deployments in countries across the world, and the fundamental basis for
building the next generation Web 3.0 — “Internet of value”. In this article, we will start with unraveling the
essential ingredients of blockchain technology, and showing the characteristics of each of these ingredients
in the context of distributed systems.
We will then present the core technical challenges that need to
be addressed prior to unleashing its full potential, including its performance, scalability, and cross-chain
interoperability. Finally, we will introduce the recent developments of blockchain systems, and discuss the
future trends of the blockchain ecosystem.
Keywords
blockchain, distributed systems, internet of value, challenges, development
Citation
Jin H, Xiao J. Towards trustworthy blockchain systems in the era of “Internet of value”: development,
challenges, and future trends. Sci China Inf Sci, 2022, 65(5): 153101, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11432-020-3183-0
1
Introduction
Today blockchain technology is widely acknowledged as the fundamental basis of building the “Internet
of value” in the new era of Web 3.0. In a world where data increases exponentially over easily acces-
sible mediums, to make information reliable and facilitate trustworthy value transferring services is of
paramount importance. It leads to a rapid shift from exchanging information in the previous Web 2.0 era
— the “Internet of information”. The core value propositions associated with blockchain lie in its ability
to support building tamper-resistant information chains, facilitating data sharing, and empowering value
exchange. This technologically fosters a trustworthy environment where you cannot do evil, achieves a
high degree of credibility among trustless participating peers, and tremendously reduces the cost of trust.
In the road map of the evolving development of distributed systems, Blockchain, an innovative paradigm
with trusted ingredients, has drawn a massive amount of attention from both industry and the research
community. Blockchain made its ﬁrst appearance as the underlying technology of Bitcoin as a form of
cryptocurrency1) during the 2008 ﬁnancial crisis. For Bitcoin, it consists of a large number of computers
worldwide to validate and record all ﬁnancial transactions in a consensually shared ledger. Thus, it can
allow transactions to have a public “witness” since transactions are added to an immutable distributed
ledger with authenticity (i.e., immune to counterfeiting).
Unlike past distributed systems where the
“trust” established between transacting parties depends on a large number of intermediaries that au-
thenticate the information, which is extremely vulnerable to a single point of failure, e.g., cyber-attacks
* Corresponding author (email: jiangxiao@hust.edu.cn)
1) Bitcoin whitepaper. https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf/.


【第2页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:2
or third-party interventions. Since its inception, blockchain technology is expected to play a pivotal role
in coping with the erosion of public trust, allowing people to trust each other and transact in a peer-to-
peer (P2P) fashion, making the need for third parties such as central banks obsolete. The cover story of
an October 2015 issue of the Economist magazine deﬁned the blockchain as “the trust machine” [1]. As
such, it transforms the conventional way of establishing trust with a centralized infrastructure through
consensus and complex computer code.
By itself, blockchain is a new generation of distributed systems by a conjunction of essential ingredients,
including consensus protocols, distributed storage, P2P networks, cryptography, and smart contracts.
Through recording transactions among parties that are mutually distrusted, it encompasses the beneﬁcial
features of decentralization, immutability, tamper-resistance, traceability, and collaborative maintenance.
The distributed nodes in a blockchain system form a P2P network to complete transactions with each
other.
Each node in the blockchain is authenticated through cryptographic algorithms and owns an
anonymous digital identity, which simultaneously enables both user privacy and system security.
A
consensus protocol determines the rules by which the blockchain data is generated and updated. The
openness of blockchain enables its participants to freely access and interact with each other with little
friction, ensuring immediate, across-the-board transparency. It provides an innovative technical means
to allow new distributed models of value transfer and new forms of P2P human collaborations.
Being the foundation of crucial strategic deployments in countries across the world, blockchain tech-
nology has brought immense impacts on society and the global economy. The past decade has shown
its great promises for delivering automaticity and eﬃciency for the digital currency — “Blockchain 1.0”.
Evolving far beyond the underpinnings of Bitcoin as a cryptocurrency, Ethereum opens up a new era
of “Blockchain 2.0” in the form of irreversible real-life agreements enabled by programmable smart con-
tracts. The application of blockchain technology is undergoing a transformation from a single ﬁeld to a
diversiﬁed area: from the earliest ﬁnance related to the digital currency, expanding to a diverse set of
industry sectors, including faster and leaner global trade ﬁnance, cross-border commitment, transporta-
tion and logistics, superior transparency and traceability in the manufacturing supply chain, increased
automation in public healthcare, and e-government services.
Despite a growing number of blockchain systems and various industry-level or enterprise-level blockchain
alliances launched to disrupt all the relevant sectors, the current blockchain technology is still in a very
early stage, where challenges to overcome are similar to the opportunities oﬀered. A list of challenging
issues such as performance and scalability may jeopardize the fast deployment of blockchain systems. De-
signing secure consensus mechanisms, eﬃcient network protocols, and scalable storage models is expected
to need signiﬁcant future work. Nowadays, there is an increasing number of blockchains launched, in the
context of a variety of multi-chain application scenarios, including the transfer of cross-chain assets, inter-
active authentication, distributed collaboration, cross-chain data sharing, cross-chain real-time clearing,
multi-role user identity authentication, and so forth. However, the heterogeneity of multiple blockchains
leads to a “lack of interoperability”, e.g., unable to communicate with or verify information on the other
chains. This “blockchain data-island” situation will signiﬁcantly worsen, further eroding user experience
and hindering the industry growth. It is an emerging issue on which the blockchain community is working
actively [2–4].
It is foreseeable that the evolving urgent requirements can lead the future trends in blockchain tech-
nology.
For example, it is desirable to design an interactive and scalable blockchain data model for
diversiﬁed storage and query demands, while eﬀectively ensuring the privacy of data owners and data
control rights.
Meanwhile, it is also important to design an eﬃcient blockchain intercommunication
protocol and hierarchical topology model to enhance communication eﬃciency, as well as to support
high-performance real-time processing functions. This will also require standardization and political will
to create a regulatory framework conducive to the evolving blockchain network.
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. First, the evolving development of distributed
systems and the essential ingredients of blockchain technology are outlined in Section 2.
Then the
incorporated challenges are explained with in-depth analysis in Section 3. We then aim to provide an im-
partial discussion about the current status and increasing needs of the blockchain technology in Section 4.
Finally, Section 5 presents an outlook on the future trends of the blockchain ecosystem, and Section 6
concludes the paper.


【第3页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:3
1980 
2000 
In 2002, Globus 
proposed OGSA in 
OGF; ChinaGrid 
project was started  
In 2004, 
CoolSteaming  and 
AnySee  based on 
P2P started to 
provide live 
streaming service 
In 2006, Amazon 
provided AWS;  
In 2007, China 973 
project on virtualization 
was launched 
In 2010, 
OpenStack 
project was 
started  
In 2008, Bitcoin was born;  
In 2013, Ethereum was 
released; In 2015, the 
Linux foundation started 
Hyperledger project 
In 2016, Hyperchain 
was released; In 
2019, Facebook 
released Libra 
Grid computing/ P2P 
computing 
Cloud computing 
Blockchain 
Distributed systems 
began sprouting 
2020 
Blockchain rose to 
the national strategy 
Figure 1
(Color online) A historical perspective of distributed systems.
2
Historical evolution of distributed systems
The blooming development of the Internet for remote access and the proliferation of commodity servers
have become the dominant forces to advocate the evolution of distributed systems infrastructure, as shown
in Figure 1. The ﬁrst real and widespread distributed systems began to appear in the 1980s, consisting of
multiple machines located physically apart and connected over a network. These nodes work together to
fulﬁll a task, or provide the same service or application to clients, forming a distributed systems cluster.
Such a cluster computing infrastructure had roots in the Berkeley network of workstations (NOW) project
developed in 1995 by Patterson et al. [5]. The NOW project’s initial focus was on improving virtual
memory and ﬁle system performance, on achieving cheap, highly available, and scalable ﬁle storage,
and on providing multiple CPUs for parallel computing.
It harnesses greater processing power and
more advanced analytics to satisfy the needs of both desktop computing and applications that require a
hundredfold more computing sources than any single machine within that building can provide.
In 1999, the SETI@home (search for extraterrestrial intelligence) project for analyzing radio telescope
signals from space was implemented via grid computing [6]. It was the ﬁrst large-scale public involvement
for scientiﬁc research, involving millions of computers provided by the general public. The concept of open
grid services architecture (OGSA) was conceived in the 2002 Globus Alliance paper during the Global
Grid Forum (OGF) for supporting the interoperable grid requirements [7]. The ChinaGrid project aims
to provide a ubiquitous, high-performance, and highly reliable grid service for research and education
purposes [8]. This project supports a diverse set of grid applications along with three categories, namely
the computation grid (e-science), the information service grid (e-info), and the instrument sharing grid
(e-instrument).
In 2006, cloud computing launched with the pioneering Amazon web services (AWS) project of Ama-
zon2). The initial aim of AWS is to oﬀer IT services and resources to the market in the form of web
services. The cloud infrastructure enables a pay-as-you-go pricing model that customers need not plan
for servers and other IT infrastructure, and therefore providing and releasing resources on-demand, and
charged based on the type of resources and peruse. In this way, as a cloud service providers AWS can
instantly spin up hundreds or thousands of servers in minutes and deliver results faster. Since then, the
control paradigm of computing has shifted from distributed to centralized, which diﬀers cloud computing
from grid computing. In 2010, OpenStack launched an open-source cloud operating system to establish
a cloud computing management platform with ease of implementation, large-scale deployment, and pros-
perous and uniﬁed standards [9]. OpenStack provided infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) solutions through
a variety of industry services. Each service provides users with an integrated API, ensuring that users
can choose pluggable service components depending on their needs.
2) Amazon web services. https://aws.amazon.com/.


【第4页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:4
The use of
resource sharing 
and multiple 
organizations
cooperate to 
reach a common
goal
A distributed
application
architecture
that partition
tasks and
workloads
between peers
Utilize virtual 
resources that can 
scale dynamically to
provide on-demand 
availability of
computer resources and
services
Integrate 
distributed storage, 
P2P network, 
consensus protocol, 
cryptography and 
other technologies 
to establish trust 
and transfer values
Centralized
Distributed
systems
Time
P2P computing
Grid computing
Cloud computing
Blockchain
Ubiquitous
Figure 2
(Color online) The dominant computing paradigms of distributed systems.
The advent of a new wave of computing driven by the blockchain is reshaping the landscape of dis-
tributed systems design, operations, and management. The concept of blockchain was ﬁrst coined as the
underlying technology of Bitcoin in 2008. Bitcoin establishes itself as a relatively stable and the most suc-
cessful cryptocurrency to date. In late 2013, Vitalik Buterin started Ethereum — the second-largest public
blockchain platform to date through immutable, programmatic smart contracts, i.e., computer programs
that self-execute when certain conditions are met3). The decentralized nature and cryptographic security
make the Ethereum network well protected against possible hacking attacks and fraudulent activities.
These program-based contractual obligations can enforce stakeholder-agreed rules and process automat-
ically. Promising reducing transaction costs associated with contracting and establishing trust between
two parties, Ethereum has gained increasing interest from both academia and industry. Concentrating
on advancing the scalability and performance for business sectors, the Linux Foundation originated the
enterprise-grade permissioned Hyperledger project [10] in 2015. In 2009, Facebook announced the initial
version release of a new blockchain-based digital currency called Libra4).
Broadly speaking, the evolution of distributed systems has gone through three diﬀerent stages. The
ﬁrst is the traditional cluster model that depends on centralized control. A reconstruction of homogeneous
nodes formed the cluster. It was followed by the emergence of grid computing that used distributed control
to achieve collaborative work in a distributed environment. Thus, a critical issue in grid computing was
collaborative problem-solving. Alternatively, P2P computing was fully distributed and autonomous. Both
cloud computing and blockchain evolved from the foundation of grid computing and P2P computing in
the past decade. Blockchain participants are located physically apart from each other and connected on
a network. Each participant operating a full node maintains a complete copy of a ledger that is updated
with new transactions as they occur.
The development roadmap of distributed systems tends to follow two paths, as depicted in Figure 2.
One path emphasizes centralized control and resource management. For example, the coordinated and
aggregate use of diverse resources in grid computing led by virtual organizations. In contrast, the control
of the back-end infrastructure in cloud computing is limited to the cloud vendor. The other path is
motivated by the ubiquitous dispersion of widespread resources.
Both are necessary, and successful
advances in distributed computing synthesize elements from both camps.
Blockchain is an innovative distributed computing paradigm with extended features in distributed
systems, consisting of a fusion of consensus protocol, distributed storage, and peer-to-peer networks.
Table 1 presents a comparison between blockchain and traditional distributed systems. The most essential
3) Ethereum whitepaper. https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf.
4) Libra whitepaper. https://libra.org/en-US/white-paper/?noredirect=1.


【第5页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:5
Table 1
Blockchain vs. traditional distributed systems
Blockchain system
Traditional distributed system
Consensus protocol
Architecture
Decentralization
Centralization
Fault tolerance
Byzantine fault tolerance (BFT)
Crash fault tolerance (CFT)
Performance
Low throughput (<100 TPS)
High throughput (K∼10K TPS)
Data storage
Architecture
Decentralization
Centralization
Storge cost/reliability
Full-copy, high reliability
Multi-copy, low cost
Data model
Chain-based, DAG-based
Diverse data structure (key value,
graph, document, etc.)
Functionality
Simple
Rich
Network communication
Architecture
P2P
C/S, P2P
Node identity
Pseudonymous
Revealed
Broadcast
Gossip, Kamedia
Tree-based
Topology
Unstructured, structured
Centralized, unstructured,
structured, semi-structured
ingredient is the distributed consensus protocol, which aims to update and synchronize the blockchain
networks’ data. It is used to determine the ordering of transactions in an adversarial environment (i.e.,
assuming not every participant is honest).
Nevertheless, it is non-trivial to ensure data consistency,
especially reconciling the assumptions of no honest, faulty, or malicious participating peers. In general,
existing blockchain consensus protocols can be divided into two categories: lottery-based and voting-
based [11,12]. The former category has good scalability but poor performance, with proof-of-work (PoW)
as its representative. While this lottery-based consensus encounters performance bottlenecks, the classical
BFT-based (Byzantine fault tolerance) consensus is introduced to blockchain. The BFT makes voting
decisions among peers to achieve high performance, thus also termed as voting-based consensus.
Inherited from cloud computing, the data is structured in an authenticated block and consecutively
chained together using cryptography, veriﬁed by Merkle tree, and distributed stored in multiple nodes. On
a basic level, a blockchain [4] is a kind of cryptographical sequence of blocks, where each block consists of
multiple transactions with a limited storage capacity (e.g., 2 MB in Bitcoin). The ﬁrst block is called the
genesis block, and the following blocks are linked chronologically using cryptographic hashes. The basic
data structure of a block involves the data (i.e., multiple transactions), a chaining-hash derived from the
immediately preceding one, and a block-hash for identiﬁcation. Note that block-hash is a unique indicator
for every block which can ensure the tamper-resistance of block data by malicious users. Speciﬁcally,
any manipulation on the block data will inherently change the block-hash. In the case of Bitcoin, the
PoW consensus protocol is integrated to enhance the safety of the system, making it highly resistant to
cyberattacks.
In general, the blockchain data is replicated in each node to make the storage fully distributed. With
local storage, each node can verify the legitimacy of new transactions and blocks independently. The
blockchain storage can be separated into two parts: on-chain ledger and oﬀ-chain state. The former
is recorded on the blockchain directly, including the bodies of transactions and blocks. The latter is
constructed and updated based on the on-chain ledger, such as the UTXO set in Bitcoin, which aims to
accelerate blockchain’s data operations.
The geographically dispersed nodes need to communicate with each other to synchronize the ledger data
and transaction proposals. Since there is no centralized server in the network, the nodes communicate
with each other in a P2P manner. The P2P protocols adopted by the blockchain network include two
kinds: unstructured P2P and structured P2P. Diﬀerent nodes communicate with each other at random
in the former, which provides low eﬃciency at low costs, such as Gossip adopted in Bitcoin. On the
contrary, diﬀerent nodes in the latter communicate with each other subject to a constrained topology
structure. Although it improves the communication eﬃciency, it also brings high overhead to maintain
the topology structure, with Kamedia-like P2P protocol in Ethereum as an example.
The fundamental problems of distributed systems demand blockchain to exploit the abovementioned
major ingredients of innovative characteristics. The ﬁrst one refers to a distributed consensus protocol,
i.e., how to ensure data consistency, guarantee throughput, and empower high-frequency concurrent
processing. It follows by the performance of the blockchain network with a large scale of nodes, i.e., how
to achieve the upgrade of the topology model, the optimization of the transmission protocol, and the
eﬃciency improvement of data synchronization. Storage scalability is another vital issue for blockchain.


【第6页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:6
For example, how to sustain incremental data storage, how to achieve trusted data veriﬁcation and
transparent data query. Indeed, it is extremely diﬃcult to meet these system-level goals simultaneously.
In Section 3, the challenges faced by blockchain technology are presented in detail.
3
Key challenges facing blockchain technology
As an emerging computing paradigm of distributed systems, blockchain has to face the inherent classical
distributed problems with divergent new features. The 2019 Gartner hype cycle of blockchain technol-
ogy5) reports that although distributed ledger and cryptocurrency mining have reached maturity, the
other core techniques like blockchain managed services, distributed storage in blockchain, and blockchain
interoperability remain at the initial stage, or the rising stage. The gap between the proof-of-concept
(POC) and wide adoption is still relatively large. In this section, we will present the key challenging
issues that have not yet been eﬀectively resolved.
Let us ﬁrst take a close look at the consensus protocol of blockchain. It stands for the root cause of the
lack of scalability for mainstream blockchain systems. Based on the PoW consensus, the generation time
of each block in Bitcoin is around 10 min, and the throughput is far lower than the VISA. On behalf of
the lottery-based consensus, such energy-intensive proof mechanism makes it diﬃcult to eﬃciently obtain
consistency. In this light, the proof-of-stake (PoS) is an energy-eﬃcient substitute that committing stake
(e.g., tokens) for validating block while its security leaves as an unresolved issue. BFT-based consensus
provides a high performance among a small number of nodes, e.g., practical Byzantine fault tolerance
(PBFT). However, the growth of network size and strong dynamics make the BFT consensus unapplicable
for large-scale blockchain deployment.
The blockchain P2P network is a key factor restricting the performance of the blockchain, which will
signiﬁcantly aﬀect the broadcast speed of the block. For example, in the Ethereum network, it takes 10 s
to synchronize a block to the entire system. Such a high network delay dramatically aﬀects the eﬃciency of
the Ethereum consensus. On the other hand, the block broadcast delay occupies too much block interval,
which will lead to the poor performance of the blockchain system, and vulnerability to double-spending
attacks. Current advancements in the blockchain network can be divided into two categories. One type is
a fully distributed unstructured P2P network protocol that optimizes the Bitcoin network by shortening
the network diameter. However, this solution will bring huge computational overhead, because each node
needs to repeatedly calculate the network distance between it and all other nodes. The second category
is that Ethereum adopts a fully distributed structured P2P network protocol. Although it increases the
connectivity of the entire network, the growth of Ethereum nodes will bring high maintenance costs.
The continuous growth of data storage overhead impedes the current blockchain development. At
present, mainstream blockchain systems inevitably face the storage problem of increasing data volume.
Take Bitcoin, the public chain with the largest number of users in the world, as an example. To ensure
immutability and system security, any full node needs to save the historical on-chain data for veriﬁcation.
As of May 2019, the total amount of data on Bitcoin is about 200 GB. Similarly, the storage capacity of
an Ethereum full node is about 600 GB. As time goes by, the data storage overhead of the blockchain will
continue to increase, resulting in excessive load and reduced eﬃciency of network nodes, further restricting
the development of blockchain technology. At the same time, the cost of data storage is prohibitive. For
example, on Ethereum, it costs about 3.76 ETH to store 1 MB of data, over USD 1385, at the current
market price. Obviously, such a high price is unacceptable in real-world commercial use.
Moreover, with the improvement of blockchain performance, the amount of data processing per unit
time has increased sharply, which brings more severe challenges in storage overhead to the underlying
data layer. For example, when the throughput of Bitcoin is 7 TPS (transaction per second), the data
stored by the full node each year is 50 GB, and the TPS can be increased to 1000. At that time, the
storage overhead will be as high as 7500 GB. The centralization issue is another challenging issue when
blockchain requires enormous computing power as the network size increases. Those nodes with suﬃcient
computing and storage capacities will dominate the system and are likely to become the major parties.
This defeats the original merits of a blockchain. Therefore, it is necessary to establish a ﬂexible and
scalable blockchain storage mechanism while improving the overall performance.
5) Hype cycle for blockchain technologies.
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2019-10-08-gartner-2019-
hype-cycle-shows-most-blockchain-technologies-are-still-ﬁve-to-10-years-away-from-transformational-impact.


【第7页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:7
Recently, interoperability has emerged as a considerable obstacle that impedes blockchain deploy-
ments [3]. Diﬀerent blockchain platforms create data islands between diﬀerent blockchains. For example,
diﬀerent blockchains use diﬀerent data structures, diﬀerent consensus protocols, and diﬀerent security
assurance mechanisms. To function eﬀectively, blockchains must make trade-oﬀs between their perfor-
mance, scalability, and security. The nature of these trade-oﬀs necessitates purpose-built blockchains
with speciﬁc strengths, limitations, and use-cases in mind. For instance, a blockchain may sacriﬁce some
degree of decentralization or security to achieve a higher TPS; another may sacriﬁce the performance for a
higher level of decentralization and security, vice versa. Therefore, it is urgent to overcome the blockchain
interoperability bottleneck. Multiple blockchains demand to cooperate, establish mutual trust, and to
realize information sharing and value release.
The current stage of blockchain has shifted from a single chain advancement — concentrates on de-
signing the consensus mechanisms, network protocol, and distributed storage model, to multi-chain col-
laboration and intercommunication.
The main tasks of this new stage involve achieving multi-party
collaborative processing, through interdependence to reach eﬃcient and secure consensus, and providing
a ﬂexible and extensible underlying storage. It strengthens the synergy of each structure in the ecosystem,
thereby improving the capacity, scalability, and safety. This undergoes an entirely diﬀerent route from
the original independent development of the single chain.
4
Recent development of signiﬁcance
With signiﬁcant beneﬁts of blockchain for societal impact insight, the global blockchain market size is
expected to grow from USD 3.0 billion in 2020 to USD 39.7 billion by 2025, at an impressive compound
annual growth rate (CAGR) of 67.3% during 2020-20256). Currently, there exist 71735 repositories of
blockchain on the GitHub development platform, which continues to grow at a rapid pace7). However,
the challenges mentioned above potentially raise technical complexities and operational overhead for en-
terprises to conﬁgure suitable blockchain infrastructures and build upper-layer applications. It causes the
hype around blockchain to slow down. According to the statistics released by Gartner, a real blockchain-
led transformation of the economy and government is still ﬁve to ten years away. The tech giants and
start-ups actively engage in embracing the actual game-changing opportunities of blockchain by ﬁguring
out their strategies.
It is noteworthy that blockchain has now become a platform technology divided into two types (as
shown in Figure 3): permissionless blockchains where anyone can participate (i.e., without the need to
trust the centralized authorities), and permissioned blockchains where participants need prior approval
and authentication. Compared to permissioned blockchains, permissionless blockchains are open and
fully transparent with complete freedom. Each user can read and modify the ledger data freely. However,
today, growing interest is gaining in permissioned blockchains as it supports an authenticated ecosystem
of enterprise-level participants via access control mechanisms and cryptographic privacy protections.
Bitcoin represents the prominent application of Blockchain 1.0 — “stateless: transaction-optimized”
digital cryptocurrency era. As an ancestor, Bitcoin starts the boom of the permissionless blockchain fam-
ily. Many alternative digital currencies (a.k.a. altcoin) have emerged with increasing usage rates due to
their low transaction speed and energy-intensive computation. For instance, Litecoin [13] is a commerce
substitution of Bitcoin that provides a shorter block generation interval and faster transaction conﬁrma-
tion time. To further expand the application ﬁelds, Ethereum opens up a new era of Blockchain 2.0 —
“stateful: logic-optimized” smart contracts-enabled value transferring with programmable transactions.
Integrated with the Internet of things (IoT) devices, IOTA [14] is the ﬁrst released project that intro-
duces a DAG (directed acyclic graph) data structure into the underlying storage of blockchain. IOTA can
process a couple of transactions concurrently and thus promote overall system performance. Conﬂux [15]
is a DAG-based public blockchain platform that positions itself to provide a scalable and secure proto-
col for future decentralized applications (DApps). As the ﬁrst project taking the sharding technique,
Zilliqa bears out the possibility to incorporate sharding into the blockchain [16]. However, there still
lacks practically applicable permissionless blockchain systems, which should provide high performance
and guarantee security at the same time.
6) https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/blockchain-technology-market-90100890.html.
7) https://github.com/search?q=blockchain.


【第8页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:8
Ethereum 
(Frontier)
(Homestead)
(Metropolis)
(Serenity)
2009
2015
2016
2019
2020
IOTA
Bitcoin 
Zilliqa
2017
Tendermint
(Whitepaper)
Facebook
FISCO
Permissionless
Permissioned
Hyperledger
(V1.0)
(V0.6)
QulianTechnology
Ant Financial
Conflux
R3 Corda
Litecoin 
(V2.0)
Development
Exploration
Maturity
(Front
Exploration
(Homestead)
(M
(Metropolis)
(
(V1.0)
(V0.6)
Development
ontier)
(Serenity)
t
Whitep
epap
a er)
(V2.0)
Matut rity
(W
Figure 3
(Color online) Mainstream permissionless and permissioned blockchain platforms.
As a complement to the permissionless blockchain, permissioned blockchain projects promise highly
eﬃcient consensus and security among a trusted consortium with enrollment certiﬁcates. Almost all the
permissioned blockchains strive to provide a more friendly user interface and cost-eﬀective deployment.
Speciﬁcally, the read and write permissions of pre-authorized entities are controlled by certain restrictions.
As a pioneering spotlight project, Hyperledger Fabric can deliver high throughput of 20000 TPS, making
it prominent for enterprise use cases. By incorporating the advantageous features of both Ethereum and
Hyperledger Fabric, FISCO-BCOS8) is launched to develop secure and eﬃcient enterprise-level blockchain
solutions. It comprises over 80 ﬁnancial institutions and FinTech companies, and serves as a pragmatic
research platform [17].
R3’s Corda9) is a competitive consortium platform involving more than 300
worldwide ﬁrms to revolutionize multiple industries, such as to build full trade lifecycle solutions for digital
asset marketplaces. Hyperchain10) makes full use of cloud platforms, which provides a more usable and
ﬂexible blockchain service. Ant ﬁnancial unveiled AntChain [18] to help strengthen transparency and
build trust in more than 50 use cases, ranging from cross-border remittance, charitable donations, to
agricultural product traceability. It is noteworthy that AntChain allows an average upload rate of over
100 million digital assets per day.
The Cosmos11) blockchain network is launched with the ultimate
goal of creating an Internet of blockchains via IBC (inter-blockchain communication) protocol and the
Tendermint BFT protocol. As the star project in 2019, Libra is proposed by Facebook to reshape the
existing payment methods.
The transformative potentials of blockchain will also give rise to new platform-level players to gain
traction in the new ecosystems.
This, in return, will require deep collaboration between technology
innovators, government, and regulators.
5
Future directions
Recent blockchain developments have shown that the technology has signiﬁcant potential of forming
a trustworthy cornerstone for the Internet of Value. Blockchain technology is now a vital enabler of
the development of digital economies, and the trustworthy social system structure, transitioning from
concept to reality. Nevertheless, as new application areas are emerging, more stringent requirements
come forth to address certain practical aspects of this technology. Further improvement in performance,
scalability, and perfect functions have become the new development goals of blockchain systems. When
multiple heterogeneous blockchain systems exist in parallel, they face the core requirements of cross-
chain collaboration and data sharing. They urgently need to upgrade the design principles, e.g., storage
structure, communication protocols, and consensus algorithms. This section anticipates the potential
research trends for the foreseeable future.
8) FISCO BCOS whitepaper. https://github.com/FISCO-BCOS/whitepaper.
9) Corda whitepaper. https://www.corda.net/content/corda-platform-whitepaper.pdf.
10) Hyperchain. https://www.hyperchain.cn.
11) Cosmos network. https://cosmos.network.


【第9页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:9
Innovation on the data model: from chain-based to chainless. At present, the underlying
data storage model of mainstream blockchain systems generally adopts a chain-based structure. That is,
several transactions are packaged and stored according to a timestamp sequence in a block as the primary
storage unit. Only one block of data can be processed at a time, making it challenging to support complex
state operations and dynamic data storage. Meanwhile, existing chain-based blockchain systems adopt
consensus protocols to ensure data consistency, such as proof of work and proof of stake, leading to
more computing overhead, serious resource consumption, and slow processing speed. High concurrent
user access further restricts the performance and scalability of these systems.
To solve the dilemma
that the processing speed of traditional chain-based blockchain cannot meet the large-scale commercial
use, researchers entail a topologically ordered DAG structure that uses ﬁne-grained transactions instead
of blocks [19]. Unlike the serialized veriﬁcation processing mechanism with the chain-based structure,
the schematic DAG-based blockchain can process multiple transactions in parallel, and has signiﬁcant
advantages of high concurrent processing eﬃciency and low veriﬁcation computation overhead.
Underlying hybrid storage. Notably, the current blockchain employing a full-copy design diﬀers
it from the conventional distributed storage that is always assumed with relatively few copies of data,
making it unable to accommodate the users with diverse storage capacities. According to the relevance
of multi-source blockchain data, it is also desirable to improve query functionalities and support high-
performance analytics [20]. A hybrid blockchain storage model can achieve fast and eﬃcient retrieval
and dynamic real-time update, forming a novel multi-chain data management framework. New data
integration methods and advanced data analytics can ensure the credibility of cross-chain interactions,
oﬀer numerous possibilities to rethink, and improve the functional scale of blockchain technology.
Accelerating the blockchain network. Today’s blockchain network is based on the P2P protocol.
It demands the blockchain network to deal with an explosive amount of transaction requests to meet
the performance needs of a wide range of applications. More architectural solutions are on the horizon
to improve the capabilities of the blockchain network. Therefore, the blockchain network will be more
extensive and tolerate the future Internet.
More DApps will be built on the blockchain network by
building trust, reducing risk, decreasing costs, and speeding up transactions. Organizations will build
applications on the blockchain technology, moving beyond the proof-of-concept stage into widespread
adoption as they start to realize the cost savings and enhanced security they can achieve.
Robust governance models for the blockchain network. Robust and eﬃcient regulation is crucial
to the future success of the blockchain ecosystem. This can naturally beneﬁt a broad range of industrial
and social sectors. Typical scenarios involve the rapidly evolving new ﬁnancial technology (FinTech)
area, where the systemic ﬁnancial risks can be automatically compliant with blockchain-based regulated
sandboxes, pre-emptively solving problems before they arise [17]. In the global outbreak of COVID-19,
blockchain plays an essential data surveillance role to facilitate the circulation of traceable anti-epidemic
materials circulation and transparent monetary donations, and to build up a reliable infectious disease
reporting system to avoid the spread of rumors.
By applying artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) techniques,
we can gain penetrating insights into the blockchain network to enable intelligent authentication and
authorization. Essentially, AI-based blockchain network governance models can be used for continuously
monitoring, evaluation, and diagnosis.
Meanwhile, it is essential to apply cybersecurity technologies
for maintaining the necessary adherence to regulatory standards, governance strategies, and process
compliance.
Directly interoperable multi-chain. Nowadays, the blockchain ecosystem comprises many block-
chains, where each one is developed to cater to the emerging use cases with distinct performance and
functionality requirements.
Riding such a recent trend in a world of heterogeneous multi-chain that
possesses diﬀerent consensus protocols and diﬀerent data structures, developing interoperable blockchain
mechanisms can reduce the impact of fragmentation, and thus receive much attention from academia
and industry.
The focus of interoperability is on the development of a cross-chain architecture and
interoperability as a service solution, making them more useful, user-friendly, eﬃcient, and scalable [21].
At this stage, the multi-chain interoperability remains open research issues. To be speciﬁc, the state-of-
the-art highly relies on a designated notary or sidechains to indirectly connect two blockchains. However,
these indirect proposals may raise security concerns and degrade the overall eﬃciency. Therefore, the
eﬀective “direct” interconnection between multiple blockchains is strongly favored beyond the existing
niche-focused solutions, which allows the data and value to ﬂow more freely throughout the blockchain
ecosystem.


【第10页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:10
Hybrid blockchains. Current multi-chain systems can support the interoperability of homogeneous
blockchains, whole architecture and functions are similar to each other. A step toward mainstream adop-
tion of blockchain technology should be a hybrid of heterogeneous multi-chain, performing their own
duties along with diﬀerent responsibilities. Such a hybrid ecosystem lies between public and consortium
blockchains and oﬀers the beneﬁts of both. It can thus support the connection of multiple heteroge-
neous blockchain systems, with more operation types, functional interactions, and diverse demands. The
ultimate state should be that retains the beneﬁcial features of each individual blockchain, and enables
more types of interoperability, deriving diversiﬁed application scenarios and promoting wider cross-chain
collaboration.
Building a symbiotic relationship with other advanced IT technologies. At present, blockchain
gradually merges with multiple underlying architectures, such as IoT and cloud computing, which serve
as the foundation for many innovative applications. These developments fuel a technological push toward
innovation and a driving force to move quickly. It stimulates the growth of interests from government
authorities, entrepreneurs, and developers to reap the beneﬁts of the convergence of these key technolo-
gies involved in digital transformation, including AI, blockchain, edge computing, and IoT. For example,
the BaaS (blockchain-as-a-service) platform formed by the integration of blockchain and cloud computing
infrastructure provides blockchain services for ﬁnancial institutions in the economic sector.
6
Conclusion
Blockchain is a new paradigm of distributed computing, which can eﬀectively achieve consistent data
storage, tamper-proof traceability, and gradual trust transmission in a multi-entity ‘weak trust’ environ-
ment. It not only inherits the technical essence of traditional distributed systems, but also poses some
new challenges that are leaving the signiﬁcant potential for further innovation. The major bottlenecks in-
clude huge storage costs, unsatisfactory performance, and lack of interoperability. The core technology of
the blockchain is still on the eve of breakthroughs, that is, ﬁve to ten years away from the transformative
impact. The future blockchain ecosystem is envisioned to be fueled by chainless data model, underlying
hybrid storage, network acceleration, penetrating regulation, and directly interoperable multi-chain.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 62072197).
References
1
Berkley J. The promise of the blockchain: the trust machine. The Economist, 2015
2
Herlihy M. Atomic cross-chain swaps. In: Proceedings of ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC),
Egham, 2018. 245–254
3
Liu Z T, Xiang Y X, Shi J, et al.
Hyperservice: interoperability and programmability across heterogeneous blockchains.
In: Proceedings of ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), London, 2019. 549–266
4
Andreas M. Mastering Bitcoin: Unlocking Digital Cryptocurrencies. Sebastopol: O’Reilly Media, 2014
5
Culler D E, Anderson T E, Patterson D A. System Support for Distributed Supercomputing on A Network of Workstations
(now). AFRL-IF-RS-TR-1999-226 Final Technical Report, 1999
6
Anderson D P, Cobb J, Korpela E, et al. SETI@home: an experiment in public-resource computing. Commun ACM, 2002,
45: 56–61
7
Foster I, Kesselman C, Nick J M, et al. The physiology of the grid: an open grid services architecture for distributed systems
integration. 2002. https://users.cs.northwestern.edu/∼srg/Papers/04-25-02/grid.pdf
8
Jin H. ChinaGrid: making grid computing a reality. In: Proceedings of International Conference on Asian Digital Libraries
(ICADL), Shanghai, 2004. 13–24
9
Sefraoui O, Aissaoui M, Eleuldj M. Openstack: toward an open-source solution for cloud computing. Int J Comput Appl,
2012, 55: 38–42
10
Androulaki E, Barger A, Bortnikov V, et al. Hyperledger fabric: a distributed operating system for permissioned blockchains.
In: Proceedings of the 30th EuroSys Conference, New York, 2018. 1–15
11
Wang W B, Hoang D T, Hu P Z, et al. A survey on consensus mechanisms and mining strategy management in blockchain
networks. IEEE Access, 2019, 7: 22328–22370
12
Xiao Y, Zhang N, Lou W J, et al. A survey of distributed consensus protocols for blockchain networks. IEEE Commun Surv
Tut, 2020, 22: 1432–1465
13
Andrews A. Litecoin: The Complete Guide to Understanding Litecoin Cryptocurrency and Litecoin Mining.
New York:
Platinum Press LLC, 2019


【第11页】
Jin H, et al.
Sci China Inf Sci
May 2022 Vol. 65 153101:11
14
Alexander R. IOTA-introduction to the tangle technology: everything you need to know about the revolutionary blockchain
alternative. 2018
15
Li C X, Li P L, Zhou D, et al. A decentralized blockchain with high throughput and fast conﬁrmation. In: Proceedings of
USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC), Boston, 2020. 515–528
16
Luu L, Narayanan V, Zheng C D, et al. A secure sharding protocol for open blockchains. In: Proceedings of ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), Vienna, 2016. 17–30
17
Ji Y M, Gu W H, Chen F, et al. SEBF: a single-chain based extension model of blockchain for ﬁntech. In: Proceedings of the
20th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (IJCAI), Yokohama, 2020. 4497–4504
18
Qi Y, Xiao J. Fintech: AI powers ﬁnancial services to improve people’s lives. Commun ACM, 2018, 61: 65–69
19
Benˇci´c F M, ˇZarko I P. Distributed ledger technology: blockchain compared to directed acyclic graph. In: Proceedings of the
38th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), Vienna, 2018. 1569–1570
20
Dinh T T A, Liu R, Zhang M H, et al. Untangling blockchain: a data processing view of blockchain systems. IEEE Trans
Knowl Data Eng, 2018, 30: 1366–1385
21
Jin H, Dai X H, Xiao J. Towards a novel architecture for enabling interoperability amongst multiple blockchains. In: Pro-
ceedings of the 38th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), Vienna, 2018. 1203–1211

