来源文件：18Blockchain and edge computing technology enabling organic agricultural supply chain A framework solution to trust crisis.pdf
============================================================

【第1页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
Available online 26 December 2020
0360-8352/© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Blockchain and edge computing technology enabling organic agricultural 
supply chain: A framework solution to trust crisis 
Sensen Hu a,b,c, Shan Huang c, Jing Huang d,*, Jiafu Su b,c 
a Collaborative Innovation Center for Chongqing Modern Trade Logistics and Supply Chain, Chongqing Technology and Business University, Chongqing 400067, China 
b School of Management and Economics, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu 611731, China 
c National Research Base of Intelligent Manufacturing Service, Chongqing Technology and Business University, Chongqing 400067, China 
d School of Foreign Studies, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434023, China   
A R T I C L E  I N F O   
Keywords: 
Blockchain 
Organic agricultural supply chain (OASC) 
Edge computing 
Traceability 
Trust 
A B S T R A C T   
The credibility of information on organic agri-products has always blocked the participation of small and 
medium-sized farms in high value-added agriculture. However, the inherent characteristics of the organic 
agricultural supply chain (OASC)–such as centralization, monopoly, and asymmetry–have repeatedly plunged 
OASC into the predicament of information non-transparency. Ultimately, it results in a severe trust crisis of 
consumers. Fortunately, the emerging blockchain and edge computing technology probably raise an opportunity 
to improve this issue. Despite the overwhelming advantage (such as tamper-resistant, trust-free, transparent, 
decentralized, and immutable), this technology has to overcome the imperfection of cost and efficiency before it 
can be employed by OASC, particularly for geographically dispersed small and medium-sized farms in remote 
areas. 
In this paper, we first leverage the immutability of blockchain and the paradigm of edge computing to 
construct an OASC’s trust framework, which has a much better trade-off between cost and efficiency. Further, 
according to the scenarios of OASC, we divide all the stakeholders into four roles, proposing a novel consensus 
mechanism to manage the information flow. The evaluation results demonstrate that our proposal can signifi-
cantly achieve the performance improvement as well as the cost decline compared to the traditional approach. 
This framework will also make affordable traceability solutions for those in developing countries at a low cost in 
the future.   
1. Introduction 
Organic agricultural supply chains (OASCs) have long been a focus 
both in academic and agricultural fields. As the carrier of the circulation 
of agricultural products (Leng, Bi, Jing, Fu, & Nieuwenhuyse, 2018), 
OASCs are quite complex systems which are in charge of the whole 
process of production, storage, transportation, marketing and con-
sumption. Fig. 1 depicts the existing product and information flows in 
OASCs, identifying the organization and their corresponding actions. 
With the rapid popularization of computer technologies, it enables 
data acquisition and processing better among each link in OASCs. 
Despite all this, the OASCs still fall into the predicament of information 
sharing and transparency (Saberi, Kouhizadeh, Sarkis, & Shen, 2019). 
According to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), dozens of 
food supply chain breach incidents have occurred only in the first half of 
2019 (the U.S. FDA, 2019), including organic bean sprouts infected with 
Listeria. Due to asymmetry information, the incident of food fraud oc-
curs occasionally, leading to a greater crisis of confidence and trust 
shortage in the conventional food products (Yang et al., 2019). Con-
sumers are more sensitive to the mismanagement of some of those crises 
as well as to the uncertainty of food safety (Azzurra, Massimiliano, & 
Angela, 2019). Therefore, to enhance public confidence, trust in such 
products remain one of the most significant. 
Current OASCs mainly rely on distributed database system and 
centralized processing that are isolated from each other (Saberi et al., 
2019). In such a way, tracing and tracking information, such as paper 
certificates or food labelling system (Aung & Chang, 2014; Chen, Ding, 
Hao, Li, & Qu, 2020; Costa et al., 2013), is maintained by the agri-
business itself. Whether paper certificates or food labelling system, they 
have a common defect, i.e., traceable information can easily be lost or 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail addresses: sensenhu@ctbu.edu.cn (S. Hu), hjfish00@sina.com (J. Huang), jiafu.su@cqu.edu.cn (J. Su).  
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Computers & Industrial Engineering 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/caie 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2020.107079 
Received 13 June 2020; Received in revised form 26 November 2020; Accepted 18 December 2020   


【第2页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
2
tampered with. Hence, the stand-alone information is hard to get public 
recognition. In other words, these sensitive and valuable data need to be 
stored by an eligible broker for trust. 
The solution to these complicated issues probably is the emerging 
blockchain technology (Azzi, Chamoun, & Sokhn, 2019). The block-
chain employs a distributed ledger technology (DLT) (Abeyratne & 
Monfared, 2016), which is governed and maintained without any cen-
tral organizations (Kshetri, 2018; Pearson et al., 2019; Saberi et al., 
2019). Visions of trust-free, transparent, decentralized and immutable 
logs announce a more reliable and authentic ecosystem, which has a 
promising implementation in OASCs. In consequence, the concept of 
“trust machine” (Notheisen, Cholewa, & Shanmugam, 2017) is turning 
into reality. 
For one thing, a new computing paradigm are needed for OASCs to 
achieve trust and consensus in a decentralized blockchain system; for 
another, similar to other potentially disruptive technology, blockchain 
requires a trade-off between cost and performance to overcome a couple 
of issues in adoption and implementation by OASCs at an early stage. 
Aiming at the above problems, this paper proposes an information 
management framework for OASCs based on blockchain and edge 
computing technology, which has a much better tradeoff between cost 
and dependability to build trust in OASCs. Our proposal has the 
following contributions:  
• First, we divide four critical roles in the management of OASCs and 
assign their responsibilities so as to reach the consensus among the 
diverse OASC entities.  
• Second, we propose a data sharing model using by blockchain to 
support an untampered record, as a result, making make OASCs more 
transparent, authentic and trustworthy.  
• Third, by introducing edge computing that has not yet been exploited 
in organic agriculture, we transform the data platform from cloud- 
based to local-domain, hence, decreasing the cost of data process 
and increasing the average response time. 
The remaining paper is organized as follows: Section 2 analyzes the 
trust issue in OASC; Section 3 discusses the emerging blockchain’s 
limitations and gives the problem description. In Section 4, we propose a 
high-level architecture of OASC to resolve the trust crisis. Section 5 
presents and evaluates the improved consensus mechanism in detail. 
Section 6 concludes the paper and present our future works. 
2. Trust analysis and literature review 
2.1. Trust in OASCs 
Trust has been widely investigated in different disciplines (Canavari, 
Pignatti, & Spadoni, 2006; Crowder & Reganold, 2015), hence, lots of 
definitions have been given in previous studies. Gambetta argued that 
trust (or distrust) is a particular level of the subjective probability with 
which an agent assesses that another agent or group of agents will 
perform a particular action, both before he can monitor such action (or 
independently of his capacity ever to be able to monitor it) and in a 
context in which it affects his own action (Gambetta, 1990). Supply 
chain networks are inherently complex adaptive network, many of 
which simply emerge without any purposely controlling of the process 
(Pathak, Day, Nair, Sawaya, & Kristal, 2007). In OASCs, to achieve 
dependable interaction between entities, stakeholders and services in a 
distributed IoT environment, trust acts as a fundamental factor. Many 
efforts (Kochovski, Gec, Stankovski, Bajec, & Drobintsev, 2019; 
Notheisen et al., 2017) have done to formalise trust, particularly to 
facilitate cooperation among autonomous agents. 
Lots of studies suggest that consumers tend to be suspicious of 
organic product claims (Nuttavuthisit & Thøgersen, 2017; Thogersen, 
2011; Vega-Zamora, Torres-Ruiz, & Parras-Rosa, 2019). According to 
the above Lemon market analysis, more than one kind of trust is likely 
relevant. In the context of our paper, with the operative purpose of 
increasing the transparency of organic products, we consider that trust 
must be built in two different dimensions: “system” and “technology”. 
2.2. System perspective 
Alrawais et al. suggested that a trusted system has to maintain reli-
able service, prevent incidental failures and handle misbehaviour issues 
(Alrawais, Alhothaily, Hu, & Cheng, 2017). System trust is dis-
embedded, universalistic, and rooted in institutions. For example, 
organic certification is a basic governmental measure to guarantee the 
authenticity of the product, instead of integrity. Daugbjerg, Smed, 
Andersen, and Schvartzman (2014) considered that certification pro-
cesses, certification bodies, labelling and sales controls consist of the 
integrity of products. Thus, it is a notable system trust. A large number of 
previous studies (Fernqvist & Ekelund, 2014; Janssen & Hamm, 2012; 
Thogersen, 2011) focus on trust in labeling and certification processes of 
OASCs. However, the vast majority of those engaged in organic agri-
culture are small businesses and small farmers. 
Without being dominated by a large scale agribusiness, the dispersed 
and small-scale farm can not afford the agricultural traceability plat-
forms due to lack of funds, technology and knowledge. Also, the agri-
cultural traceability platform maintained by an unofficial agribusiness 
faces the risk of tampering/hidden records, leading to a crisis of the 
“system” trust. 
On the other hand, it is quite difficult for consumers to identify due to 
little transparency between on-farm practices and product appearance 
in retail (Crowder & Reganold, 2015). The majority of consumers ex-
pectations regarding organic food products target the production pro-
cess rather than the end product (Rahmann et al., 2017; Vega-Zamora 
et al., 2019). Within OASCs, even though each entity who enjoy long- 
term strategic cooperation, mutual trust potentially take place among 
them. In such a scenario, trust plays a fundamental prerequisite for these 
interactions both in producer-consumer and every OASCs’s entities. 
Fig. 1. Existing product and information flows in organic supply chains, which rely on distributed database system and centralized processing.  
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第3页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
3
Lack of transparency in OASCs will prevent supply chain entities and 
customers from verifying and validating the true value of products. 
Therefore, building “system” trust is very important to enable the in-
teractions and relationships in the context of peer-to-peer (“P2P”) 
marketplaces and services (Hawlitschek, Notheisen, & Teubner, 2018). 
The rise of online agricultural traceability platforms paved the way 
for large-scale marketing interactions between individuals and products. 
For example, a “P2P” platform is a recent emerging information system 
based on end-to-end trust. In consequence, such trust is delivered by 
trusting in the traceability of the platform. In all this, the platform 
supports not only the information infrastructure including each step of 
the process but also services such as reputation systems, thus under-
taking a pivotal role in constructing and maintaining trust among con-
sumers (Katz, 2015). In the passive perspective, traceability affords 
visibility to where organic food is and their disposition at all times. 
Whereas in an active perspective, the online tracking information ex-
tends the boundary of the supply chain management system by means of 
keeping historical records, instead of only optimize and control the 
process. 
2.3. Technology perspective 
The system trust has to extend to the technology trust with additional 
related concepts including dependability, security, and reliability. Many 
OASC systems have been proposed using various information technol-
ogies, such as RFID, internet of things (IoT), cloud-based platform, 
artificial intelligence (AI) (Karim, Mahmoud, Nasser, & Khan, 2014; 
Tzounis, Katsoulas, Bartzanas, & Kittas, 2017). RFID tags combined with 
diverse sensors have been deployed for almost ten years in farm moni-
toring, irrigation, specialty crops and food traceability control (Alfian 
et al., 2017; Costa et al., 2013; Durresi, 2016; Ruiz-Garcia & Lunadei, 
2011). At present, organic agriculture tends to be a very information- 
intensive management system, or what has been called a “software- 
based” innovation (Fountas et al., 2015; Wolfert, Ge, Verdouw, & 
Bogaardt, 2017). Correspondingly, OASCs’s trust management involves 
a hybrid of two distinct hardware and software which respond to the 
production, processing, stores, and marketing. 
Wireless sensor networks (WSN) combined with IoT (Ruiz-Garcia & 
Lunadei, 2011) is one of the greatest innovations over the past decade in 
agriculture management. Recently, image and sound sensors are 
increasingly deployed for precision farm management. With the 
advantage of low-cost and wireless, various WSN devices can be widely 
spread out over farms and upload crop’s data (Karim et al., 2014) using 
standardized protocols (e.g. IEEE 802.15.4, IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.15.1, 
LoRa®, 3G/4G/5G, SigFox) in real-time. Large volumes of agricultural 
data have to be transmitted to a remote cloud for analysis (Morais et al., 
2019), leading to data-driven and data-enabled. As such, the sequence of 
activities from data capture, to data storage, to data transfer, and to data 
analysis (Wolfert et al., 2017) constructs a data flow. In such a manner, it 
forms the agricultural IoT paradigm, i.e., a real ubiquitous access 
(anywhere and anytime) to data and services. Accordingly, trust is also 
associated with a specific quality of service (QoS). Trust management 
requirements depend on the system’s performance and quality attri-
butes, involving availability, credibility, privacy, response time, 
throughput, security, transparency, traceability (Kochovski et al., 2019). 
2.4. Positioning of the present work 
The conventional centralized cloud computing wins through the 
economies of scale in operations and system administration (Lopez et al., 
2015; Pan & McElhannon, 2018). However, there also exists one 
obstacle not to convince the consumers in the technique aspect. For one 
thing, despite cryptography-based security mechanisms, trusting the 
data flow is not wise in the autonomous, unattended and distributed 
environment of WSNs due to internal attacks and fraud behaviors. For 
another, such a centralized model inevitably leads to an information- 
monopoly, ossification, and opaque of the supply chain, as well to 
inhibit trust. Hence, a notable trust management solution is to improve 
the authenticity of data flow while maintaining satisfactory QoS. 
Various researches have explored trust management from diverse ar-
chitectures and computing models. Shi, Pallis, and Xu (2019) proposed 
the classic model of edge computing model which is divided into three 
tiers of IoT devices, edge devices, and clouds (see Fig. 2). Kochovski 
et al. (2019) presented a trust management architecture “DECENTER” 
that relies on blockchain and Fog computing. They proposed to certify 
the entities and stakeholders (users and providers, IoT data sources, 
software components, Fog nodes, Cloud storage), and independently 
monitor their status through independent blockchain based services. 
Morais et al. (2019) proposed “mySense” that builds over a 4-layer 
technological structure: sensor and sensor nodes, crop field and sensor 
networks, cloud services. Helo and Hao (2019) designed a reference 
implementation based on Ethereum and demonstrated the technical 
architecture of the blockchain-based logistics monitoring system. Fig-
orilli et al. (2018) implemented a blockchain architecture within the 
wood chain electronic traceability. Their architecture integrates the 
information related to the product quality with those related to the 
traceability within an online information system. 
The blockchain-based trust model can offer a trusted data flow. 
Meanwhile, edge computing can provide satisfactory QoS. Our proposal 
complements the above efforts by combining blockchain with edge 
computing on trust management. In the following section, we will pro-
pose a novel computing paradigm based on the aforementioned view-
point, and present the architecture and its internal mechanism in detail. 
3. Technology limitations and problem description 
In this section, we first present blockchain and edge computing 
fundamental, respectively. Subsequently, we point out their disadvan-
tages and limitations so that to implement the trust concern. 
3.1. Blockchain fundamental and data structure 
Blockchain has a chained data structure, in which each block refer-
ences the hash of the previous block as shown in Fig. 3. This creates a 
link between the blocks. Each block consists of a header and a body. The 
header part includes various fields, such as a block version, a hash value 
to the previous block, timestamp. The body part contains details of 
transactions. 
The hash value of any ith block is calculated as depicted in Eq. 1. 
Hi = Hash(inputi, IDi, Timestampi, Hi−1)
(1)  
where inputi is the packaged transaction data, IDi is the digital identifier 
associated with the data producer, Timestampi is the current timestamp 
Fig. 2. Three tier edge computing model (Shi et al., 2019).  
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第4页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
4
value, and Hi and Hi−1 are the hashes value of current and previous 
blocks, respectively. 
Blockchain skillfully combines cryptography, distributed system 
technology, P2P technology (Azzi et al., 2019), which leverage a 
mathematical algorithm to reach a consensus so as to realize coordina-
tion and cooperation among various nodes. The consensus is the key 
feature of a blockchain, which refers to consistent views and agreement 
among participants of the blockchain. 
In essential, blockchain is a collectively maintained distributed led-
ger (Abeyratne & Monfared, 2016; Reyna, Martín, Chen, Soler, & Díaz, 
2018) that records each transaction in the chronological order in terms 
of consensus mechanism. In such a manner, blockchain has inherent 
benefits summarised as follows.  
• Trust-less and no intermediary. P2P networks mean each node in the 
distribution system is logically equivalent. Hence, the blockchain 
system can automatically trigger actions between nodes without 
third parties (a central node).  
• Tamper-resistant. All transaction has a time-stamp that can not be 
altered once being recorded in the block, thus establishing trust.  
• Transparency. The information can be witnessed by all participants 
and to be recorded in the chain according to the consensus 
mechanism.  
• Security. Distribution and cryptography nature ensure integrity, 
authenticity, immutability and non-repudiation, thus excluding 
malicious action of an even authenticated node. 
3.2. Technical constraints and limitations 
As the blockchain is introduced into OASCs, the above benefits can 
be regarded as transparency, authenticity, trust, and security (Pearson 
et al., 2019; Wang, Singgih, Wang, & Rit, 2019), enabling extremely 
robust and real-time traceability of organic food. As a result, it is raising 
an organizational and technological innovation for agricultural infor-
mation management. However, to establish the potential of blockchain 
technology for an organic food traceability system, it is significant to 
realize its technical constraints and limitations.  
• Efficiency. The transaction rate is lower, as the original blockchain 
design (Bitcoin1) limits the processing rate to 7 transactions per 
second and a new block to every 10 min. Similarly, Ethereum2 just 
has a capability of 17 s for each transaction. Hence, the processing 
capability is far away from the milliseconds’ databases achieved so 
far.  
• Storage cost. The basic size of a block is limited to 1 MB. With the 
explosive growth data from diverse sensors, it implies that various 
transactions are increasing. Thus, blockchain becomes ‘bulky’, in 
which each block has to store all previous transactions. On the other 
hand, on account of limited block size, it is impossible to store the 
entire farm-to-table information into blockchain, especially image 
information.  
• Computing model. Almost all kinds of farm electrical/electronic 
devices tend to part of IoT, producing volume raw data. Moreover, 
these data have to be transmitted to the cloud, causing heavy 
bandwidth and high energy consumption (Shi, Jie, Quan, Li, & Xu, 
2016). Hence, the conventional cloud computing model is not effi-
cient enough to handle all these data when it comes to data mining in 
the blockchain environment. In this scenario, the consensus mech-
anism needs to be reconsidered to ensure shorter response time, 
more efficient processing and smaller network pressure. 
3.3. Edge computing and blockchain integration 
Edge computing is a computing paradigm that allows computation to 
be performed at the edge of a network (Lopez et al., 2015; Shi et al., 
2016). As well as known, in the conventional cloud computing, down-
stream data is on behalf of cloud services, while upstream data is IoT 
services. Shi et al. (2016) proposed the ‘edge’ refers to any computing 
and network resources along the path between data sources and cloud 
data centers. According to the rationale of edge computing, computing 
tends to occur at the proximity of data sources. Compared to cloud 
computing, the edge computing paradigm have several potential bene-
fits. First, it reduces the response time by moving computation from 
cloud to edge (Yi, Hao, Qin, & Li, 2015). Second, the energy consump-
tion could be reduced by 30%-40% as well (Chun, Ihm, Maniatis, Naik, 
& Patti, 2011; Pan & McElhannon, 2018). 
In our opinion, blockchain as an open infrastructure can shift the 
paradigm of agriculture IoT in coordination with the edge computing. 
First, the computing model urge to be re-deployed to full use of local/ 
cloud resource. The blockchain system that executes large amounts of 
data mining should be deployed in the cloud, whereas the data gener-
ated by the edge devices should be preprocessed in local and then be 
uploaded to the cloud as possible as a small volume. Second, the IoT 
devices can offload their tasks to the edge to improve the load capa-
bilities. Third, the blockchain running in the cloud raises an opportunity 
that all stakeholders can access the open platform at low cost, especially 
small farms. Such an open environment will ensure trust in OASCs. 
Overall, these are our unique contributions. 
4. High-level architecture of our proposal 
Having presented the background, the technological pros and cons, 
and their requirements for trust management, we propose a novel 
computing paradigm, which has a decentralized and cooperative char-
acteristic by combining agricultural IoT ecosystem with the emerging 
blockchain and edge computing. Fig. 4 depicts a multi-level architecture 
Fig. 3. Blockchain’s chain structure.  
1 https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.  
2 http://ethereum.org/. 
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第5页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
5
of the computing paradigm that follows interoperability standards set by 
Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF),3 and Edge Computing 
Consortium Europe (ECCE).4 Our framework of computing paradigm 
comprises two closely interrelated elements: planes and layers. The 
planes are technique activities that link various interfaces. The layers are 
data links by which the business processes are integrated and managed 
across the data flow. Each layer takes charge of a different stage of the 
data stream processing and is described in the following. The planes and 
the layers increase versatility in the deployment of the solution, mean-
while, connectivity performances with the data links are met. 
Fig. 4. The overall architecture of the blockchain-edge computing paradigm. The application, cloud, edge and IoT planes are separated by rectangles. The hybrid of 
edge computing/blockchain module is instantiated as blockchain-as-a-service elements, allowing for uploading only on-chain data along the network path, from the 
organic crop to the cloud. 
3 https://www.cncf.io/.  
4 https://ecconsortium.eu/. 
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第6页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
6
4.1. Architecture planes 
The overall cloud/edge/blockchain paradigm of the solution pre-
sented to cover trust management needs is depicted in Fig. 4. It is 
essentially distributed into four key planes: IoT data, edge computing, 
cloud computing and application.  
• IoT data plane. The IoT data plane includes various kinds of IoT 
devices, such as cameras, smart sensors (pressure, thermometer, 
hygrometer, pluviometer, anemometer, and moisture sensor), GPS. 
These sensors are used for data collection, which mainly collects 
farm or field data on soil types, weather, spraying, planting, yields, 
images, and other practices. Subsequently, the raw data is trans-
ferred to the edge computing layer after preprocessing. The plane 
and the edge computing plane are coupled together to some extent 
due to virtualized computing paths and nodes.  
• edge computing plane. In organic farms, a variety of smart field 
devices is scattered throughout the farm. These heterogeneous de-
vices come from manufacturers that support diverse hardware, 
protocols, and algorithms, leading a fundamental problem of in-
compatibility data formats. Fortunately, the edge computing plane 
can be regarded as a middleware to convert data from one format to 
another, which mitigates various data dimensions. The edge 
computing plane consists of two layers, i.e., smart contract layer and 
edge data layer. A set of virtualized control modules (for example 
edge node) is instantiated along the network path from smart devices 
to the cloud plane. Moreover, after being cleaned, analyzed and 
processed, the data are divided into off-chain and on-chain two parts. 
The former is stored in the localhost, whereas the latter forwards the 
cloud-end to further process. This manner increases versatility in 
cloud-edge computing when it comes to blockchain. Meanwhile, the 
performance of storage and response time is met in this computing 
paradigm proposed.  
• cloud computing plane. The cloud computing plane is designed to be 
deployed at remote data servers. Compute-intensive program or task 
that requires a global resource are undertaken at the elements 
deployed into the cloud plane. Therefore, the cloud plane has to be 
virtualized in high-end servers. In our framework, the blockchain 
deploys in this plane, providing blockchain-as-a-service (BAAS).  
• application plane. The application plane is a front end in which the 
users can acquire their information or seek services from a service 
provider by diverse apps, application program interfaces (APIs), and 
smart terminals. In the present the traceable system of OASC, the 
application plane is tasked with providing the farm-to-table infor-
mation services to stakeholders or consumers in a secure manner. 
Meanwhile, such plane provides a platform to all the stakeholders for 
dissipating asymmetry information so as to enable data sharing. 
4.2. Architecture layers 
Our proposal consists of five layers: physical layer, edge data layer, 
smart contract layer, cloud/blockchain layer, and user layer. This 
perspective is from the view of data flow.  
• physical layer. This layer consists of various sensors, actuators, 
controllers, gateways, and IoT devices in which a smart contract is 
deployed. These devices either are encapsulated the smart contract’s 
address of their blockchain client or are found out by a discovery 
service. Moreover, various wireless protocols, such as WIFI, zigBee, 
LoRa or SigFox, are normally applied in such an IoT environment of 
organic farms.  
• edge data layer. The edge data layer is composed of infrastructures 
(edge nodes) for the deployment of containerized microservices and 
data, QoS monitoring of the infrastructures and IoT devices. The 
edge data layer acquires the data from the physical layer and then 
process, compress, transform them, moreover, separates the data 
into edge data (local) and cloud data as needed. This layer first 
completes the data rights, that is, the identification of the data pro-
ducer. In turn, this layer supports off-chain to verify trace/track in-
formation from the blockchain resided in the cloud. The edge nodes 
continuously monitor and gather the related information, while the 
local servers are responsible for storage off-chain data. Such off- 
chain verification resolves the issue of the blockchain implementa-
tion, such as privacy, communication bandwidth, energy consump-
tion, latency.  
• smart contract layer. The smart contract layer assembles a cluster of 
smart contracts. Smart contracts are self-executing scripts that build 
on the basic blockchain structure in advance, which allows for 
proper, distributed, heavily automated workflows of OASCs. In this 
layer, the cluster of smart contracts involves smart law contracts, 
decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), and application logic 
contracts, which go beyond the transfer of simple monetary values. 
The law contracts define strict legal recourse to prevent parties 
involved in the contract from performing their transactions. DAO is a 
community that can define a set of rules on the blockchain, which are 
embodied in smart contracts code. Each participant is then subject to 
these rules, and its task is to execute and obtain recourse in the event 
of program interruption. In our design, the participants consist of not 
only the stakeholders of OASCs but also the four roles corresponding 
to four parties (see Section 5) of consensus mechanism.  
• cloud/blockchain layer. The cloud/blockchain layer consists of a 
cloud storage repository and a blockchain-like ledger, supporting 
three kinds of blockchains, namely, public chain, alliance chain, and 
private chain. Considering the inefficiency of the public chain, we 
exploit the alliance chain to involve all stakeholders in OASCs. The 
alliance chain is a blockchain design between the public chain and 
the private chain, which takes into account crypto-related use cases 
and custody-type of use cases. In this layer, we introduce an inter-
planetary file system (IPFS)5 and BigchainDB.6 IPFS is an emerging 
standard for content-addressable storage. That is, the same file has 
the same name on each computer, and changing the contents of the 
file will result in a change in the file name. Due to the severe limi-
tations on data capacity, we just store the hash value of the file 
content in the blockchain resided in cloud, while the file itself is 
stored at the edge. In order to meet the query requirements of files, 
we also introduced BigChainDB which is data storage and search 
engine. As such, our proposal are best-suited for value chain re-
lationships between different agricultural enterprises to share in-
formation via the alliance chain infrastructure.  
• user layer. The user Layer is the entry point for the stakeholder that 
wants to trace or track organic food and even to manage the OASCs. 
This layer is connected to the blockchain ecosystem via the block-
chain bridge, which looks like an Ethereum bridge Metamask who is 
enabled as a browser add-on. Meanwhile, this layer also provides 
various APIs with the third party developer that customize data and 
software. 
4.3. Collaboration capability of cloud-edge and blockchain 
The major factor that we are interested in blockchain is that its 
distributed ledger can be easily added to the present OASC’s workflows 
and the whole data processing. In the long run, with this consideration 
and perspective, it is probably to innovate an entirely new business 
model or technical ecosystem. 
As for the concern of the technical ecosystem, Fig. 5 depicts the 
collaboration capability of the cloud-edge and blockchain service for 
OASCs. As shown in Fig. 5, we summarize six diverse collaboration in 
corresponding to service level. 
5 https://ipfs.io/.  
6 https://www.bigchaindb.com/. 
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第7页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
7
• resource collaboration. The edge nodes (for example, smart agri-
cultural sensor) provide calculation, storage, network, and virtuali-
zation infrastructure with OASCs. For raw data from the farm, it is 
not private-sensitive so that it can be fully shared with all stake-
holders, which has a lower demand for business isolation. However, 
for the participating entities of OASCs, the virtualization technique is 
the potential to isolate the calculation and storage resource. 
• data collaboration. The edge nodes collect data from various termi-
nals and wireless sensors via rich protocols, ports, and interfaces. The 
majority of the private data of the OASC entities are processed in 
edge devices, while the non-confidential data are processed in the 
public cloud. Besides, various data interacts with converging, 
sensing, and autonomy to form AI-based edge and cloud intelligence 
infrastructure, further serving high-level business collaboration.  
• storage collaboration. On the cloud side, a file system (IPFS) and a 
database (BigchainDB) are deployed. On the edge side, an off-chain 
database is used for storing the key transaction from OASC’s busi-
ness flow. IPFS, a key-value storage system, undertakes the function 
that each on-chain hashed data digest maps a unique off-chain file. 
Meanwhile, BigchainDB stores all the transformed hash value from 
source data and support to retrieve for users. In such a manner, we 
only upload a 256-bit hash value to the cloud bolckchain system 
while the majority of data resides on the edge side or local, which 
further isolates the private data and protects the privacy. Due to this 
collaboration, the cost of storage, network bandwidth and response 
time are all reduced as well.  
• smart collaboration. The edge nodes provide the cloud’s blockchains 
with rich data input. Services with higher real-time requirements or 
larger bandwidth are allocated to edge nodes. On the edge and the 
cloud both sides, some artificial intelligence models and distributed 
agents can be enabled. According to the characteristics of organic 
agriculture, the AI model of various business scenarios of farm-to- 
table can be formed. The training of the AI model is carried out in 
the cloud and then is dispatched to the agent of the edge to execute. 
For instance, the cloud side engages in the supply chain model 
optimization of organic products, order management, and logistics 
optimization. On the other hand, the edge side predicts information 
such as the crop’s yield, quality, and specifications in terms of the 
light, water, fertilizer, and other growth adjustments.  
• application management collaboration. The edge nodes provide the 
application deployment and run-time environment, such as field 
management, production service. The cloud implements the entire 
lifetime management of the application. Moreover, the privacy- 
sensitive applications are mostly deployed on the edge side while 
the non-privacy-sensitive ones mostly in the cloud.  
• business collaboration. The edge nodes provide edge application 
instances, while cloud deployments apply business capabilities. 
Various App programs and API calls consist of the business appli-
cations ecosystem, which is activated by executing sets of operations 
or by the third-party developer. These authorization entities on the 
cloud side build lots of smart contracts to collaborate with physical 
smart devices on the edge side, extracting or transferring information 
from blockchain to carry out data process. 
5. Improved consensus mechanism of blockchain 
In our proposal, trust is always highly desirable. The blockchain 
enables a trustless traceability system because the consensus mechanism 
can faster reconcile between transacting parties even though they do not 
trust each other. In this section, based on the above mentioned high- 
level architecture, we first target the division of the roles, namely data 
producer, data maintenance and management, data right verification, 
and data consumer party. Around these four primary participating roles, 
we present our novel consensus mechanism, storage model and 
consensus network in detail, which constitutes the core blockchain 
system and ensures trust in the OASCs for all stakeholders. 
5.1. Four parties of consensus mechanism  
• Data producer party. From the perspective of data flow, the data 
producer locates the source of the data stream or the business flow, 
which is the producer or provider of the data. In our OASCs system, 
various wireless sensors and IoT devices in the field are producers of 
data during the planting stage. In the processing stage, each quality 
testing instrument of the product is the producer of the data. In the 
logistics stage, each transfer station that is responsible for the relay 
forwarding of organic agricultural products is the producer of the 
data. In general, there exist three categories of data producer: 
Fig. 5. The cloud-edge service for organic agriculture supply chain collaborates with blockchain technology.  
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第8页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
8
process-mediated (PM), machine-generated (MG) and human- 
sourced (HS). Currently, data production is almost automatically 
implemented through smart devices or terminals, which increases 
the cost of data fraud from the source. As long as data from data 
producer parties is real, the traceability of organic foods makes 
sense.  
• Data right verification party. The data right verification is not only to 
confirm the ownership, use rights and access rights of the data but 
also to control subsequent use and information dissemination. Ulti-
mately, the need for data validation is due to the fact that data can be 
free replicated. Blockchain is a distributed ledger that everyone has a 
piece of data. After everyone knows the data (e.g. transaction), the 
consensus reaches. Therefore, the blockchain ensures integrity at the 
expense of confidentiality. Our data right verification employ smart 
contracts to achieve bookkeeping rather than the previous method 
that is preemptive data right verification and then upload data on- 
chain. In other words, the parties make bookkeeping of the data to 
concern the identity of the owner and the user.  
• Data consumer party. The data consumer party is the visitor or user 
of the data, which is authorized to manipulate data. Because of the 
existence of data consumers, data can eventually be shared and 
flowed. By data consumption, the consumer can also reconfigure 
knowledge acquisition and integrate the data flow infrastructure into 
data analysis.  
• Data maintenance and management party. The data maintenance 
and management party are responsible for the technical and business 
planning of the edge clusters and the cloud, which fully utilizes the 
existing resource scheduling system technically. Among their re-
sponsibility, the most important is the novel data processing frame-
work, involving the database (blockchain), search engine 
(BigchainDB), file system (IPFS). Compared with traditional system 
maintenance, the key point of our proposed framework is the auto-
mation of the data platform and the tamper-resistance of data. 
Moreover, our solution is a new parallel-oriented data processing 
framework, which means that the database and search engine are not 
on the same system. Therefore, the processing of data in our para-
digm becomes more diverse and complicated because all processes 
are data-driven. 
5.2. Business processes of consensus mechanism 
Achieving consensus in public networks is costly and often requires 
economic incentives for miners, for example, the bitcoin employs proof 
of work (POW) to reach a consensus. However, small and medium-sized 
OASCs are desperate for a controlled, regulated higher throughput 
environment, which is not available in public networks. To prevent 
chaos and to reach a common global view (i.e., consensus) in this 
distributed environment, the blockchain system needs to build certain 
rules that each database transaction should follow. The comprehensive 
sequence diagram among the above four parties is depicted in Fig. 6. 
These scenarios aim at assuring trusted data access as shown in Fig. 6. 
The data process starts when the producer sends a request (right_-
verification_request()) to the right_verification party. The right_-
verification service acknowledges the request of the producer party and 
triggers the bookkeeping of the maintenance party through the function 
addBlockchain(). The function addBlockchain calculates the hash value of 
the transaction information resided on the edge side and then writes the 
hash value to the cloud blockchain. Subsequently, the data producer 
stores the corresponding information in a local edge database. Such 
mechanism provides on-chain and off-chain data validation for the same 
transaction record, which reduces the cost of traceability and improves 
the efficiency of the cloud blockchain. 
Similar to the above scenario is the scenario for data consumption. As 
the data consumption occurs, the request of the consumer party (con-
sumption_request()) is first sent to the maintenance party. Afterward, the 
request is forwarded to the right_verification party to confirm the 
authorization of the data request by the function verify_right(). After 
receiving the request, the right_verification party sends an ACK signal to 
the maintenance party and forwards the message to the producer party 
via the function notify(). Subsequently, any transaction of manipulating 
the data is recorded in the blockchain. Meanwhile, the off-chain data are 
also changed accordingly. 
From the above scenarios, our proposed four-party strategy effec-
tively regulates the generation, confirmation, maintenance, and con-
sumption of data, thus ensuring the trust of the entire data flow. In such 
a manner, it promotes the credibility of the organic agricultural trace-
able system and raises the management level of OASCs, which ulti-
mately facilitates the opening and sharing of the data market. 
5.3. Storage model 
According to the aforementioned four-party strategy, we improve the 
hierarchy storage structure of the blockchain to suit the consensus 
mechanism, as shown in Fig. 7. 
Unlike a traditional block structure that includes several trans-
actions, we construct a two-level hierarchical blockchain in which each 
transaction in the block corresponds to an item table, and the trans-
action field only is filled by the hash value of the item table. Moreover, 
each member of the item consists of the data owner’s public key (PK), 
metadata, and data digest. 
The top level’s hash value of any ith block is calculated as shown in 
Eq. 2. 
Fig. 6. Sequence diagram of communication among data producer party, data maintenance & management party, data right verification party, and data con-
sumer party. 
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第9页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
9
Hi = Hash(
∑
n
i=1
itemhashi, IDi, Timestampi, Hi−1)
(2)  
where itemhashi is the hash value of the corresponding packaged second 
level’s data, IDi is the digital identifier associated with the block num-
ber, Timestampi is the current timestamp value, and Hi and Hi−1 are the 
hashes value of current and previous blocks, respectively. 
The itemhashi is computed by Eq. 3. 
itemhashi = Hash
( ∑
m
i=1
PKi,
∑
m
i=1
Metadatai,
Timestampi,
∑
m
i=1
datadigesti
)
(3)  
where datadigesti is the value of each data digest in the item list. For the 
local data, the data digest field stores a hash value of the data while the 
field directly stores the records for the information of data confirmation 
and data operations. 
In this way, we achieve the isolation of cloud-edge computing, i.e., 
the first level is running on the cloud side as an index of data. The second 
level is stored on the edge side, allowing the user further to search for 
data and access rights through the public key. 
5.4. OASCs’s consensus network 
In this subsection, we first present the blockchain consensus network 
from a high-level perspective in response to the trust concern in OASCs. 
According to the critical characteristic of the above mentioned four 
roles, we abstract the consensus network of the blockchain as depicted in 
Fig. 8. 
This consensus network is a WK-recursive topology, whose number 
of processing nodes increases with the power of four at each stage. Every 
node is connected to its three neighbors. First, we give a formalized 
description of our consensus network topology as follows. 
Definition 1.
Given a WK-recursive topology with rk (k ≥ 0) nodes (r 
denotes radix, here r = 4), the participant node’s ID is encoded in 
Sequence pkpk−1…p2p1, where pi∈{1, 2,…, r} (1⩽i⩽k) is the cluster 
number containing the node after partition at leveli and the value of pi 
means the position of the cluster. Fig. 8 shows a 4-radix topology 
network as k = 1, k = 2, k = 3, respectively. 
For k = 1, it shows a basic 4-radix WK-recursive topology in which 
each node corresponds to one party of the above mentioned four parties. 
With IoT devices and participants increasing, the topology is rising with 
the power of four and is keeping four nodes in each cluster so as to 
partition autonomous networks (k = 2,3…). 
Therefore, each data from any consensus participant can be pro-
cessed in a local cluster to reach a consensus rather than network-wide 
broadcasting. By exploiting the flavor of hierarchical and full intercon-
nection topology, our consensus mechanism achieves more efficient 
locality and lower latency over other ones in complex scientific com-
putations. Such a recursive clustering structure is particularly suitable 
for being deployed in small organic farms with a wide geographic dis-
tribution. The consensus participants of one or more farms constitute a 
basic cluster network, which then gradually expands to form higher- 
level clusters. 
Fig. 7. improved data storage hierarchy structure of the blockchain.  
Fig. 8. The abstract consensus network of the blockchain among four roles, i.e., data producer party, data maintenance & management party, data right verification 
party, and data consumer party. 
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第10页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
10
5.5. Evaluation 
We are deploying our solution on an organic citrus farm in Zhejiang 
Province, China, as shown in Fig.Fig. 9. From the actual situation, the 
operating cost of the blockchain system includes three parts: computing 
power, network overhead, and consensus mechanism. 
With regard to computing power, we have divided various stake-
holder roles so that data storage is realized by consensus nodes, avoiding 
waste of computing resources (unlike POW algorithms). With regard to 
network overhead, TPS refers to system throughput, which also repre-
sents the amount of system processing per second. In the case of 4 
consensus nodes +1 synchronization node, the peak value can reach 
6212TPS and the average value is 5838.3TPS. In the case of 30 
consensus nodes, the peak value can reach 2800TPS and the average 
value is 2086.8TPS. It proves that this system has the capacity to support 
high concurrency services and good network scalability. Regarding 
consensus mechanism, we compare the major static characteristics of 
two 4-radix network topologies, i.e., 2D-mesh and WK-recursive, as 
shown in Table 1. The 2D-mesh topology is a popular network that 
widely employs in the field device of farms. The total links (l), the 
network diameter (d) and l*d are commonly used to measure and 
compare the network performance of a system. Therefore, the evalua-
tion criteria follow these three criteria. The total links are a measure that 
shows the number of edges connected within a network topology. The 
network diameter is a measure that shows how well the network’s scale. 
The smaller the diameter of a network, the less time it takes to reach a 
consensus across the network. l*d represents the network cost. 
Fig. 10 depicts the performance of the WK-recursive consensus 
network compared to the 2D-mesh network under three indicators, 
namely total links (l), network diameter (d), and l*d. For simplicity, all 
the results are normalized to the 2D-mesh network. Under the same 
number of nodes, the WK-recursive consensus network has a smaller 
number of network diameter compared to the traditional 2D-mesh to-
pology, which means it takes less time to transfer a message and to 
approve of the transaction in the whole network. Also, the WK-recursive 
consensus network has a smaller l*d so that it appears capacity of lower 
network cost. Moreover, with the increasing of nodes, both network’s 
link tends to be the same. Therefore, it proves our proposal can reduce 
network latency and consensus cost so as to improve the performance of 
OASC’s traceability. 
6. Conclusions and future works 
The credibility of information on organic agri-products has always 
blocked the participation of small and medium-sized farms in high 
value-added agriculture. As a potentially disruptive technology, block-
chain technology is transforming OASCs’ activities. Recently, re-
searchers have focused on implementing such emerging technology in 
the traceability of organic agricultural supply chain to promote the 
consumer’s trust in high-end organic foods and improve the value-added 
of agri-products. Ultimately, a virtuous circle is expecting. 
Despite the overwhelming advantage (such as tamper-resistant, 
trust-free, transparent, decentralized, and immutable), this technology 
has to overcome the imperfection of cost and efficiency before it can be 
employed by agricultural supply chain, particularly for geographically 
dispersed small and medium-sized farms in remote areas. For these 
considerations, we reform the blockchain and proposal a framework 
solution to suit organic farm environments according to application 
practice. To our best knowledge, we are the first to attempt to construct 
a technique model to resolve the trust issue of organic agriculture by 
combining the blockchain and edge computing. In our proposed solu-
tion, we leverage the immutability of blockchain’s DLT and the para-
digm of edge computing to reduce the blockchain expenditure. 
Further, we propose a consensus mechanism in which our proposal 
refines four critical roles from all the stakeholders. The evaluation re-
sults demonstrate that our proposal can significantly achieve the per-
formance improvement as well as the cost decline compared to the 
traditional consensus network. 
In the future, we will take on general standards and protocols for 
various portable devices to provide better service under our framework. 
Meanwhile, we will leverage the principle of the framework to guide the 
design of agriculture traceability systems as well. For another significant 
implementation, we are dedicating to deploy our framework in the 
countryside of western China and making affordable traceability solu-
tions for those in developing countries at a low cost. 
Fig. 9. IoT node and sensors deployed in the organic citrus farm.  
Table 1 
various 4-radix network topologies for comparison.  
Topology 
Links 
Diameter 
Bisection Width 
WK-recursive 
2(n-1) 
2logn
4 −1  
4 
2D-Mesh 
2(n-
̅̅̅n
√ )  
2(
̅̅̅n
√ -1)  
̅̅̅n
√
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第11页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
11
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Sensen Hu: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software. Shan 
Huang: Writing-review & editing. Jing Huang: Investigation, Formal 
analysis. Jiafu Su: Software, Validation. 
Acknowledgements 
This research is supported in part by National Social Science Foun-
dation of China (No. 18BGL100 and No. 16XGL009). Also, this work is 
supported by the Chongqing Social Science Planning Project, under 
Grant 2017QNGL61. 
References 
Abeyratne, S., & Monfared, R. (2016). Blockchain ready manufacturing supply chain 
using distributed ledger. International Journal of Research in Engineering and 
Technology, 5, 1–10. https://doi.org/10.15623/ijret.2016.0509001 
Alfian, G., Rhee, J., Ahn, H., Lee, J., Farooq, U., Ijaz, M. F., & Syaekhoni, M. A. (2017). 
Integration of rfid, wireless sensor networks, and data mining in an e-pedigree food 
traceability system. Journal of Food Engineering, 212, 65–75. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2017.05.008 
Alrawais, A., Alhothaily, A., Hu, C., & Cheng, X. (2017). Fog computing for the internet 
of things: Security and privacy issues. IEEE Internet Computing, 21, 34–42. 
Aung, M. M., & Chang, Y. S. (2014). Traceability in a food supply chain: Safety and 
quality perspectives. Food Control, 39, 172–184. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
foodcont.2013.11.007 
Azzi, R., Chamoun, R. K., & Sokhn, M. (2019). The power of a blockchain-based supply 
chain. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 135, 582–592. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
cie.2019.06.042 
Azzurra, A., Massimiliano, A., & Angela, M. (2019). Measuring sustainable food 
consumption: A case study on organic food. Sustainable Production and Consumption, 
17, 95–107. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2018.09.007 
Canavari, M., Pignatti, E., & Spadoni, R. (2006). Trust within the organic food supply 
chain: The role of the certification bodies (p. 11). URL http://ageconsearch.umn. 
edu/record/7736. 
Chen, T., Ding, K., Hao, S., Li, G., & Qu, J. (2020). Batch-based traceability for pork: A 
mobile solution with 2d barcode technology. Food Control, 107, 106770. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.foodcont.2019.106770 
Chun, B.-G., Ihm, S., Maniatis, P., Naik, M., & Patti, A. (2011). Clonecloud: Elastic 
execution between mobile device and cloud. In Proceedings of the Sixth Conference on 
Computer Systems EuroSys ’11 (pp. 301–314). New York, NY, USA: ACM. https://doi. 
org/10.1145/1966445.1966473.  
Costa, C., Antonucci, F., Pallottino, F., Aguzzi, J., Sarri´a, D., & Menesatti, P. (2013). 
A review on agri-food supply chain traceability by means of rfid technology. Food & 
Bioprocess Technology, 6, 353–366. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11947-012-0958-7 
Crowder, D. W., & Reganold, J. P. (2015). Financial competitiveness of organic 
agriculture on a global scale. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the 
United States of America, 112, 7611–7616. 
Daugbjerg, C., Smed, S., Andersen, L. M., & Schvartzman, Y. (2014). Improving eco- 
labelling as an environmental policy instrument: Knowledge, trust and organic 
consumption. Journal of Environmental Policy & Planning, 16, 559–575. https://doi. 
org/10.1080/1523908X.2013.879038 
Durresi, M. (2016). Chapter 14 - (bio)sensor integration with ict tools for supplying chain 
management and traceability in agriculture. In V. Scognamiglio, G. Rea, F. Arduini, 
& G. Palleschi (Eds.), Biosensors for Sustainable Food - New Opportunities and Technical 
Challenges (Vol. 74, pp. 389–413). Elsevier. Comprehensive Analytical Chemistry. 
doi: 10.1016/bs.coac.2016.06.001. 
Fernqvist, F., & Ekelund, L. (2014). Credence and the effect on consumer liking of food – 
A review. Food Quality & Preference, 32, 340–353. 
Figorilli, S., Antonucci, F., Costa, C., Pallottino, F., Raso, L., Castiglione, M., … 
Menesatti, P. (2018). A blockchain implementation prototype for the electronic open 
source traceability of wood along the whole supply chain. Sensors, 18, 3133. https:// 
doi.org/10.3390/s18093133 
Fountas, S., Carli, G., Sørensen, C., Tsiropoulos, Z., Cavalaris, C., Vatsanidou, A., … 
Tisserye, B. (2015). Farm management information systems: Current situation and 
future perspectives. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 115, 40–50. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.compag.2015.05.011 
Gambetta, D. (1990). Can we trust trust? Trust: Making and breaking cooperative relations. 
Basil Blackwell.  
Garcia Lopez, P., Montresor, A., Epema, D., Datta, A., Higashino, T., Iamnitchi, A., … 
Riviere, E. (2015). Edge-centric computing: Vision and challenges. SIGCOMM 
Computer Communication Review, 45, 37–42. https://doi.org/10.1145/ 
2831347.2831354 
Hawlitschek, F., Notheisen, B., & Teubner, T. (2018). The limits of trust-free systems: A 
literature review on blockchain technology and trust in the sharing economy. 
Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, 29, 50–63. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
elerap.2018.03.005 
Helo, P., & Hao, Y. (2019). Blockchains in operations and supply chains: A model and 
reference implementation. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 136, 242–251. 
Janssen, M., & Hamm, U. (2012). Product labelling in the market for organic food: 
Consumer preferences and willingness-to-pay for different organic certification 
logos. Food Quality and Preference, 25, 9–22. 
Karim, L., Mahmoud, Q. H., Nasser, N., & Khan, N. (2014). An integrated framework for 
wireless sensor network management. Wireless Communications & Mobile Computing, 
14, 1143–1159. https://doi.org/10.1002/wcm.2260 
Katz, V. (2015). Regulating the sharing economy. Berkeley Technology Law Journal, 30, 
1067–1126. https://doi.org/10.15779/Z38HG45 
Kochovski, P., Gec, S., Stankovski, V., Bajec, M., & Drobintsev, P. D. (2019). Trust 
management in a blockchain based fog computing platform with trustless smart 
oracles. Future Generation Computer Systems, 101, 747–759. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.future.2019.07.030 
Kshetri, N. (2018). 1 blockchain’s roles in meeting key supply chain management 
objectives. International Journal of Information Management, 39, 80–89. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2017.12.005 
Leng, K., Bi, Y., Jing, L., Fu, H.-C., & Nieuwenhuyse, I. V. (2018). Research on 
agricultural supply chain system with double chain architecture based on blockchain 
technology. Future Generation Computer Systems, 86, 641–649. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.future.2018.04.061 
Morais, R., Silva, N., Mendes, J., Ad˜ao, T., P´adua, L., L´opez-Riquelme, J., … Peres, E. 
(2019). mysense: A comprehensive data management environment to improve 
precision agriculture practices. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 162, 
882–894. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.05.028 
Notheisen, B., Cholewa, J. B., & Shanmugam, A. P. (2017). Trading real-world assets on 
blockchain. Business & Information Systems Engineering, 59, 1–16. https://doi.org/ 
10.1007/s12599-017-0499-8 
Fig. 10. The performance of WK-recursive consensus network compared to 2D-mesh network about three main aspect, namely, total links (l), network diameter (d) 
and l*d. (All the results are normalized to 2D-mesh network.) 
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       


【第12页】
Computers & Industrial Engineering 153 (2021) 107079
12
Nuttavuthisit, K., & Thøgersen, J. (2017). The importance of consumer trust for the 
emergence of a market for green products: The case of organic food. Journal of 
Business Ethics, 140, 1–15. 
Pan, J., & McElhannon, J. (2018). Future edge cloud and edge computing for internet of 
things applications. IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 5, 439–449. https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/JIOT.2017.2767608 
Pathak, S. D., Day, J. M., Nair, A., Sawaya, W. J., & Kristal, M. M. (2007). Complexity and 
adaptivity in supply networks: Building supply network theory using a complex 
adaptive systems perspective. Decision Sciences, 38, 547–580. 
Pearson, S., May, D., Leontidis, G., Swainson, M., Brewer, S., Bidaut, L., … Zisman, A. 
(2019). Are distributed ledger technologies the panacea for food traceability? Global 
Food Security, 20, 145–149. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gfs.2019.02.002 
Rahmann, G., Ardakani, M. R., B`arberi, P., Boehm, H., Canali, S., Chander, M., … Galvis- 
Martinez, A. C. (2017). Organic agriculture 3.0 is innovation with research. Organic 
Agriculture, 7, 1–29. 
Reyna, A., Martín, C., Chen, J., Soler, E., & Díaz, M. (2018). On blockchain and its 
integration with iot. challenges and opportunities. Future Generation Computer 
Systems, 88, 173–190. 
Ruiz-Garcia, L., & Lunadei, L. (2011). The role of rfid in agriculture: Applications, 
limitations and challenges. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 79, 42–50. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2011.08.010 
Saberi, S., Kouhizadeh, M., Sarkis, J., & Shen, L. (2019). Blockchain technology and its 
relationships to sustainable supply chain management. International Journal of 
Production Research, 57, 2117–2135. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
00207543.2018.1533261 
Shi, W., Jie, C., Quan, Z., Li, Y., & Xu, L. (2016). Edge computing: Vision and challenges. 
IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 3, 637–646. 
Shi, W., Pallis, G., & Xu, Z. (2019). Edge computing [scanning the issue]. Proceedings of 
the IEEE, 107, 1474–1481. https://doi.org/10.1109/JPROC.2019.2928287 
Thogersen, J. (2011). Country differences in sustainable consumption: The case of 
organic food. Social Science Electronic Publishing, 30, 171–185. 
Tzounis, A., Katsoulas, N., Bartzanas, T., & Kittas, C. (2017). Internet of things in 
agriculture, recent advances and future challenges. Biosystems Engineering, 164, 
31–48. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2017.09.007 
the U.S. FDA (2019). Recalls, market withdrawals, & safety alerts. u.s. food & drug 
administration. https://www.fda.gov/Safety/Recalls/default.htm. Accessed March 
2019. 
Vega-Zamora, M., Torres-Ruiz, F. J., & Parras-Rosa, M. (2019). Towards sustainable 
consumption: Keys to communication for improving trust in organic foods. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 216, 511–519. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.12.129 
Wang, Y., Singgih, M., Wang, J., & Rit, M. (2019). Making sense of blockchain 
technology: How will it transform supply chains? International Journal of Production 
Economics, 211, 221–236. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.02.002 
Wolfert, S., Ge, L., Verdouw, C., & Bogaardt, M.-J. (2017). Big data in smart farming – A 
review. Agricultural Systems, 153, 69–80. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
agsy.2017.01.023 
Yang, Y., Huisman, W., Hettinga, K., Liu, N., Heck, J., Schrijver, G., … van Ruth, S. 
(2019). Fraud vulnerability in the dutch milk supply chain: Assessments of farmers, 
processors and retailers. Food Control, 95, 308–317. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
foodcont.2018.08.019 
Yi, S., Hao, Z., Qin, Z., & Li, Q. (2015). Fog computing: Platform and applications. In 
Third IEEE Workshop on Hot Topics in Web Systems and Technologies. 
Sensen Hu was born Jingzhou, Hubei, China in 1979. He received his Ph.D. degree from 
Beijing Institute of Technology in 2017. In 2014, he earned the financial support from 
china scholarship council (CSC) to Delft University of Technology as a joint Ph.D. student. 
Currently, he as an associate professor is working at Collaborative Innovation Center for 
Chongqing Modern Trade Logistics and Supply Chain, Chongqing Technology and Busi-
ness University, China. His research interests include organic agricultural supply chain, 
blockchain and edge computing technology, and agricultural internet of things (IoT). 
Shan Huang was born in 1997. She is a postgraduate student of Chongqing Key Laboratory 
of Electronic Commerce & Supply Chain System, Chongqing Technology and Business 
University. 
Jing Huang was born in Jingzhou, Hubei, China, in 1980. She received the B.S. degree 
from Yangtze University, China, in 2003, and the M.S. degree from the University of 
Wisconsin Platteville, WI, USA, in 2010. She is currently an Assistant Professor with 
Yangtze University. Her research interests include blockchain and edge computing tech-
nology, and agricultural internet of things (IoT). 
Jiafu Su was born in Cangzhou, Hebei, China in 1987. He received the B.S. degree in 
college of mechanical engineering from the North University of China, Shanxi, China, in 
2010 and the Ph.D. degree in school of mechanical engineering from Chongqing Univer-
sity, Chongqing, China, in 2017. He has been an Assistant Professor at the Chongqing Key 
Laboratory of Electronic Commerce & Supply Chain System, Chongqing Technology and 
Business University since 2017. He has published over 20 papers in international or do-
mestic journals, including Kybernetes, Knowledge Management Practice and Research, 
Journal of Simulation and Sustainability. His research interests cover innovation man-
agement, knowledge management and supply chain management. 
S. Hu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       

