来源文件：5Understanding blockchain Definitions, architecture, design, and system comparison.pdf
============================================================

【第1页】
Understanding blockchain: definitions, architecture,
design, and system comparison
Mohammad Hossein Tabatabaei
Department of Informatics
University of Oslo
mohammht@ifi.uio.no
Roman Vitenberg
Department of Informatics
University of Oslo
romanvi@ifi.uio.no
Narasimha Raghavan Veeraragavan
Department of Informatics
University of Oslo
raghavan@ifi.uio.no
Abstract—The explosive advent of the blockchain technology
has led to hundreds of blockchain systems in the industry,
thousands of academic papers published over the last few years,
and an even larger number of new initiatives and projects.
Despite the emerging consolidation efforts, the area remains
highly turbulent without systematization, educational materials,
or cross-system comparative analysis.
In this paper, we provide a systematic and comprehensive study
of four popular yet widely different blockchain systems: Bitcoin,
Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, and IOTA. The study is presented
as a cross-system comparison, which is organized by clearly
identified aspects: definitions, roles of the participants, entities,
and the characteristics and design of each of the commonly
used layers in the cross-system blockchain architecture. Our
exploration goes deeper compared to what is currently available
in academic surveys and tutorials. For example, we provide the
first extensive coverage of the storage layer in Ethereum and
the most comprehensive explanation of the consensus protocol in
IOTA. The exposition is due to the consolidation of fragmented
information gathered from white and yellow papers, academic
publications, blogs, developer documentation, communication
with the developers, as well as additional analysis gleaned from
the source code. We hope that this survey will help the readers
gain in-depth understanding of the design principles behind
blockchain systems and contribute towards systematization of
the area.
Index Terms—Blockchain system, Distributed ledger technol-
ogy, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, IOTA
I. INTRODUCTION
Since Bitcoin inception and deployment back in 2009, it
has been creating waves of discussions and debates about
its success as the first widely popular cryptocurrency effort.
Bitcoin did away with a broker entity and showed that it
is fundamentally possible to have a working cooperative
economic model in practice where the technology does all
the mediation.
In 2014–2016, there occurred an explosive extension in
the range of applications, with everybody talking about the
Blockchain Paradigm underlying the technology that enables
cooperative economic models and cooperative storage and
management of agreements. According to [1], the annual
revenue of blockchain-based enterprise applications worldwide
will reach $19.9 billion by 2025, up from about $2.5 billion
in 2016.
Declared intention of future use of blockchain in cooperative
healthcare provision is making global news [2]. Cooperative
energy markets based on microgrids are viewing blockchain as
a major technological enabler [3]. Blockchain is becoming a
common element in solutions for decentralized digital identity
(DID) [4], certificate storage [5], land registries [6], and
supply chains [7]. Microsoft declares “blockchain” as one of
the key “must win” technologies for their Azure platform
and business [8]. Similarly, IBM unveils a new ambitious
blockchain service and strategy [9]. A long row of major
enterprises such as Accenture, Cisco, Citibank, Facebook,
Disney Studios, Goldman Sachs, and HSBC have publicly
declared their investment in the technology with the intent
of exploring the potential for exploitation, which has resulted
in an establishment of industrial blockchain associations such
as Diem [10]. Governments in North America, Europe, and
Asia are advancing blockchain-related strategy and legislation,
reflecting their significant interest towards the advent and
utilization of the technology [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16].
Blockchain has become one of the hottest topics at many
societal, industrial, and academic conferences.
The above has resulted in hundreds of blockchain systems
in the industry, thousands of academic papers published over
the last few years, and an even larger number of new initiatives
and projects. Following this explosive development, the area
currently remains tumultuous, without commonly accepted
terminology and with occasionally diverging concepts and
ideas. For example, we list five different definitions of the term
”blockchain” in Section II-A, all being used in the literature
and in description of actual systems.
Emerging surveys such as [17] and [18] among all have
made an important first step towards orderly understanding of
the area. However, most of the published surveys are focusing
on one system (such as Bitcoin [19], [20]), a particular class of
blockchain (e.g., DAG-based [21]), or an individual aspect of
blockchain (such as proof-of-X or defense mechanisms against
security attacks of a specific type). In-depth comparisons
across systems of different type are exceedingly rare, and so
are standardization initiatives or attempts to establish general
taxonomies. Thus, despite the consolidation efforts, the area
remains highly turbulent without systematization. Accordingly,
there are no textbooks or comprehensive educational materials,
except for Bitcoin itself [22].
Today, the only way to gain in-depth technical understand-
ing of the design behind almost any blockchain system is to
arXiv:2207.02264v3  [cs.NI]  26 Jul 2023


【第2页】
read typically outdated white and yellow papers followed by
perusing the continuously updated technical documentation,
followed by scanning hundreds of blog posts by the developers
and conflicting forum posts by the users and finally, by
studying the source code.
A. Contributions
Our main contribution is the first systematic and compre-
hensive comparative study of blockchain design across differ-
ent systems. While many existing works provide a focused
cross-system comparison on a particular aspect, we aim to
provide a comparative design insight that goes far beyond
the information that is currently available in the literature.
The comparison is performed across four blockchain systems
representative of different blockchain strands (i.e., Bitcoin,
Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, and IOTA) with divergence
in the design priorities, architectural elements, performance,
and even roles of the participants and basic definitions. While
IOTA is not as popular as the other three, it is the most
commonly used DAG-based system and it was ranked at the
fourth place [23] by the market cap in 2017.
First, we present generic roles of the participants in
blockchain along with the significance of each role and
explain how the entities (i.e., computing devices of different
categories) in a blockchain system of each type map to these
roles. We introduce a generic layered architecture that applies
to all blockchain systems regardless of the type. The study
of the four systems is organized across these layers so that
the design of each layer is considered separately from the
rest. This methodology allows us to conduct a comprehensive
cross-system comparison. The comparison is organized by
clearly identified aspects: definitions, roles, entities, and the
characteristics and design of each of the layers. We also
contrast the performance of the four systems based on the
previously published information and explain the reasons for
the differences.
Our exploration goes deeper compared to what is currently
available in academic surveys and tutorials. For example,
we provide the first extensive coverage of the storage layer
in Ethereum and the most comprehensive explanation of
the consensus protocol in IOTA. The exposition is due to
the consolidation of fragmented information about popular
systems from blogs, developer documentation, and studying
the source code.
Our main emphasis is on the education and pedagogical
exposition that lends itself to courses and tutorials. While such
descriptions exist for Bitcoin, no such materials are available
for Ethereum and IOTA to the best of our knowledge. A
more fine-grained summary of our contribution along with the
comparison with existing surveys is available in Section V.
Our study focuses on the design of the systems themselves
rather than on application mechanisms developed atop them.
In particular, we do not cover hybrid storage systems that
combine on-chain and off-chain elements. Besides, the scope
does not include functional features such as sharding that are
still in development and that are not supported by the current
versions of the blockchain systems.
B. Roadmap
In Section II, we first contrast various blockchain definitions
and reflect on the discrepancies in the commonly used termi-
nology. Then, we introduce a list of roles of the participants
and a layered blockchain architecture that are both applicable
to all blockchain systems regardless of the type. In Section III,
we present an overview of the four systems, discuss the entities
in each, and explain how they map to the generic roles. In
Section IV, we provide a layer-by-layer comparison between
the four systems while covering a variety of design aspects and
characteristics. In Section V, we contrast our work with other
state-of-the-art surveys. Finally, we present our conclusions in
Section VI.
II. UNDERSTANDING BLOCKCHAIN: DEFINITIONS AND
CONCEPTS
In this section, we review and reflect upon central definitions
and concepts of blockchain technologies.
A. Reflection on Various Blockchain Definitions
The term of “blockchain” generally refers to a paradigm
for maintaining information in a distributed system that is
characterized by a number of properties. Since there is no
specification or established standards in 2023 yet, different
concretizations of this general definition have been adopted in
the literature and existing popular blockchain-based systems.
Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLTs, in short) is a well-
defined term: it refers to a system that records a ledger of
transactions or a history of changes to the system state. The
ledger is usually hard to tamper with, which is a boon for
security, yet it also makes it hard to perform desirable changes,
e.g., to prune the history or compact the ledger.
While people tend to equate blockchain with DLTs, both
narrower and broader meanings of “blockchain” are in use.
Literally, blockchain means “a chain of blocks”, which implies
a specific data structure for the ledger implementation. A chain
of blocks precludes any parallelism between the transactions,
however, which has a negative impact on the performance.
Some ledger implementations use more a complex data struc-
ture such as braids [24] or a directed acyclic graph (DAG) in
IOTA, which allow some degree of parallelism by retaining
concurrently proposed competing blocks and merging them.
Since the term of DLT does not imply any specific data
structure, it covers such a generalization. On the other hand,
the term of “blockchain” becomes a misnomer in that case.
In absence of more refined terminology today, “blockchain” is
used in the literature to refer to a chain of blocks or generalized
DLTs.
To add to the confusion, some systems in this domain do not
maintain a distributed ledger at all. For example, Corda [25]
allows participating computing devices to agree upon and
maintain shared knowledge in a non-trusted environment typ-
ical for blockchain. However, each piece of information is


【第3页】
only shared within a subset of computing devices to which
the information pertains. Yet, the term of “blockchain” is
sometimes used to collectively refer to all systems in the
domain including Corda.
We have been able to identify the following definitions in
the literature:
Definition 1: Blockchain is a system that uses the data
structure of Bitcoin but extends the functionality. This def-
inition is used by, e.g., Bitcoin spin-offs that were created
either due to hard forks or as an extension of the limited
scripting functionality of Bitcoin. This definition is not limited,
however, just to cryptocurrency systems; it can be utilized for a
large spectrum of business logic by customizing the blockchain
modules and protocols.
Definition 2: Blockchain is a system that maintains a chain
of blocks. This definition allows for generalization of Defi-
nition 1: it allows data structures other than those used in
Bitcoin. For example, Ethereum and Hyperledger match this
definition.
Definition 3: Blockchain is a system that maintains a
ledger of all transactions. The ledger does not need to be
stored as a chain of blocks, however. IOTA is an example of
a system that follows this definition.
Definition 4: Blockchain is a system with distributed non-
trusting parties collaborating without a trusted intermediary.
This definition rather refers to the main beneficial property of
the paradigm. It was originally advocated by Corda [25].
Definition 5: Blockchain is a system that provides support
for smart contracts. Many blogs and popular science articles
(such as [26]) regard blockchain as a way of replacing
paper-based contracts and human intermediaries with smart
contracts, without considering how such contracts are imple-
mented.
The first three definitions above are sorted by generality,
from the most concrete to the most general. While they refer
to the way the system is built, the last two definitions are about
the way the system is used.
It
is
important
to
distinguish
between
definition
of
blockchain and its characterization. While the definition has
not been universally agreed upon, the fundamental properties
have been extensively explored in the prior literature. For
example, blockchain data is immutable: new data can be
added but already included data cannot be deleted or modified.
Blockchain additionally provides tamper-resilience, i.e., pro-
tection of blockchain data against any unwanted modification.
Since immutability and tamper-resilience are explained and
discussed in a large body of literature [27], we do not cover
them in this paper.
In the absence of proper definition, a blockchain is some-
times compared to a distributed tamper-resilient database with
immutable data. It is important to observe that a blockchain
differs from such a database in two fundamental ways. First,
a database is an organized collection of data representing the
current system state. The main functionality of a database is to
allow efficient data retrieval, fusion, and aggregation triggered
by user queries. In contrast, most blockchain implementations
represent a ledger in which a history of transactions (or,
more generally, of changes to the system state) is recorded.
For example, there is simply no concept of a user balance
in Bitcoin! While Ethereum keeps track of a contract state,
it only provides limited means to retrieve and process state
data, as explicitly defined by the contract. It does not support
abstractions of a flexible query language, data view, schema,
join, etc. Besides, Ethereum records a history of all changes
to the state, which results in blockchain space being more
expensive and the storage less efficient compared to a database.
As a result, only specific data elements (such as short transac-
tions or indices) are stored on a blockchain. Many blockchain
systems combine blockchain with offchain storage (databases
or dedicated file systems).
Secondly, the trust model is radically different as observed
in [25]. The database servers typically trust each other, even
in federated databases, in the sense that they do not expect
attacks from within the system. The main security focus is on
making it difficult to compromise a server in the first place. To
this end, database systems defend against malicious clients by
using firewalls, strict access control, and many other methods.
The situation is fundamentally different in the blockchain en-
vironment: the interests of participating computing devices are
inherently misaligned so that they need to verify information
received from each other and run a consensus to agree on
changes to the data. While being able to agree on changes and
progress in absence of a trusted administrator is a powerful
abstraction, it bears a cost tag in terms of performance. If
there are no misaligned interests between the participants and
attacks from within the system are unlikely, there is little point
in using blockchain technologies.
B. Blockchain types
The two most important characterizations are the con-
straints on which participants are allowed to propose updates
to the blockchain1 and which participants are allowed to
read blockchain data. In Bitcoin, any computing device may
propose updates to the ledger or read it. This is also the
case for the public deployments of Ethereum and IOTA. In
Hyperledger Fabric, only authorized computing devices are
allowed either. However, mixed models are also possible: In
Ripple, every computing device has read access while only
authorized computing devices can propose updates. We call
these characterizations update-access-restricted and query-
access-restricted, respectively. We refer to a system that is
update-access-restricted or query-access-restricted as access-
restricted. Obviously, systems that are access-restricted require
computing device authorization.
Usually, the identities are also handled differently in systems
that are access-restricted. Namely, such systems typically use
real computing device identities while systems that are not
access-restricted commonly use public keys for identification.
In principle, however, systems that are not access-restricted
1Throughout this paper, by updating the blockchain we mean appending
new data. Other types of updates are impossible due to data immutability.


【第4页】
Figure 1. Roles of the participating computing devices and the relations between these roles
can still use real identities, if such identities can be verified
and if the transparency of participation is more important
than privacy. It is also not unimaginable for access-restricted
systems to employ public keys or pseudonyms, though it may
require the authorization or authentication component to op-
erate under different trust and security assumptions compared
to the blockchain system itself.
There exists another related dimension for classifying
blockchain systems, namely decentralization. Large-scale de-
centralized blockchain systems, such as Bitcoin, Ethereum,
and IOTA, may have up to hundreds of thousands participating
computing devices [28], [29] without any coordinated manage-
ment of the system structure, organization of computing de-
vices, or network connections. On the other hand, consortium
blockchain systems such as Hyperledger Fabric are smaller
proprietary deployments where the consortium may decide to
partially manage all of the above. We observe, however, that
even consortium blockchain does not lend itself to complete
management. In other words, all blockchain systems are self-
organizing, though the extent of self-organization varies across
the systems. The scale and extent of management significantly
affects design priorities and implementation components as
we explain in the rest of this survey. Consortium systems are
access-restricted by nature. Large-scale decentralized systems
are not query-access-restricted, though they may be update-
access-restricted.
Unfortunately, the above complexity is not reflected in the
currently existing terminology. All blockchain systems are
coarsely divided into two categories in the existing literature.
The first category is referred to as public or open or permis-
sionless while the second category is called private or closed
or permissioned. The exact meaning of these six terms and
differences between them are not precisely defined to the best
of our knowledge.
C. Participants and their Roles
Since the models and implementations significantly differ
in various blockchain systems, we need to identify com-
mon fundamental elements in order to perform a systematic
comparison. Two such unifying elements are the roles of
participating computing devices and the conceptual layered
architecture. We discuss these two elements in Sections II-C
and II-D, respectively. They apply to all blockchain systems
studied in the rest of the paper, and they will likely generalize
to many other blockchain approaches as well.
As commonly accepted in descriptions of distributed archi-
tectures, roles refer to the functional responsibilities. The same
computing device may play a single or multiple roles in the
system. The roles in a blockchain system are presented in
Figure 1.
Creators of Transactions: Different entities implement-
ing a blockchain application can create transactions and inject
them into the system by relaying them to the proposers.
Proposers and Acceptors: A central functionality of a
blockchain system is to validate injected transactions and
decide which transactions will be appended to the blockchain
and in what order. This is the main responsibility of com-
puting devices acting as acceptors. To this end, they need
to run a distributed consensus protocol. However, all con-
sensus solutions have an inherent limitation when it comes
to scalability: they do not work very well if there are too
many acceptors or too many concurrent transactions to be
considered. This also makes consensus protocols susceptible
to denial-of-service (DoS) attacks: an attacker can bombard
a blockchain system with invalid transactions, effectively
stalling consensus progress. To improve the scalability and
resilience to DoS, most blockchain systems introduce the role
of a proposer. Proposers act as intermediaries between creators
of transactions and acceptors. They may reduce the rate of
concurrent proposals by (a) verifying and pre-authorizing them
locally and filtering out invalid or non-authorized transactions,
(b) introducing explicit rate control, and (c) batching multiple
transactions into a block. The exact distribution of responsi-
bilities between the acceptor and proposer roles depends on
a specific blockchain system but the conceptual separation
applies to most systems. Since blockchain systems do not
assume that all computing devices are trustworthy, they may
need to incentivize the blockchain participants to perform their
roles correctly, without deviations. Additionally, proposers and
acceptors contribute to making the blockchain tamperproof,
together with data recorders.
Data recorders: These entities record the additions to the
blockchain accepted by the acceptors, which results in storing
the entire blockchain. Along with proposers and acceptors,
they contribute to data security by making the data tamper-
proof through the use of cryptographic primitives.


【第5页】
Query issuers: They issue queries of different types over
the current blockchain data.
Query responders: Some of the computing devices play-
ing the role of data recorders have an additional responsibility
of responding to the queries from query issuers based on the
stored blockchain data. The need for and the exact role of
query responders is further detailed in Section IV-D6.
D. Architecture
The design of blockchain systems is based on a layered
architecture, which we show in Figure 2.
Hardware Layer: This is the bottommost layer of a
blockchain system. While most blockchain systems can be
deployed without any specialized hardware, hardware can
make the computation (e.g., of cryptographic hashes) more
efficient, provide extra security of the storage and computing
environment, etc.
Data Storage Layer: This is the most important part of a
blockchain system when it comes to storing data, keeping it
safe from modifications, and making it traceable. This layer
is also responsible for providing availability and durability of
data. All of these features depend on the data items used in
this layer, the method of storing the data, and the structure of
the storage.
Figure 2. Layers of a blockchain system
Communication Layer: Any blockchain system needs a
mechanism for disseminating the transactions and blocks be-
tween the participants. This is especially important for large-
scale permissionless blockchain systems. The granularity of
dissemination, protocol of communication, ordering guaran-
tees, privacy and security guarantees, and propagation time
are related to this layer. All computing devices participating
in a deployment of a blockchain system can be divided
into two categories according to their involvement in the
dissemination: core nodes constituting the blockchain network
and “client” computing devices. Core nodes cooperate based
on a common protocol to maintain blockchain data. In contrast,
client computing devices do not play an active role in the
dissemination. Instead, they get specific blockchain data of
interest from core nodes.
Data Manipulation Layer: The main responsibilities of
the data manipulation layer include updating the blockchain
and offering a search functionality for blockchain data. Since
an update must be a coordinated decision in a decentralized en-
vironment with a lack of trust between individual participants,
the consensus protocol plays a central role in all blockchain
systems. Consensus protocols vary across blockchain sys-
tems [30], though the two most common categories are prob-
abilistic Nakamoto consensus and BFT. Design choices of
the data manipulation layer can affect different parameters
related to performance and the strength of security and privacy
guarantees, including the ability to withstand or mitigate DoS
attacks.
Contract Layer: Blockchain systems provide the ability of
defining contracts for creating and enforcing the rules among
the participants of the network. Different blockchain systems
may use various methods for developing the contracts based
on their application domain. This layer deals with invoking
and executing transactions within the contract, as well as
programming languages (which may be Turing-complete or
not) and execution environments.
Application Layer: This is an abstraction of the applica-
tion built atop a blockchain system. While its specific design
is outside the scope of a blockchain system, it defines the
requirements that a blockchain system needs to satisfy.
III. UNDERSTANDING BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS: OVERVIEW
AND ENTITIES
While pursuing the question of in-depth understanding of
blockchain, we opt to illustrate the range of possibilities by
analyzing four blockchain systems with significantly different
properties and implementations. In this work, Bitcoin Core,
Ethereum 1.0, Hyperledger Fabric v.2.0, and IOTA IRI v.1.5
are compared to each other in terms of blockchain entities
and features and mechanisms of each architecture layer. The
blockchain field is known for dynamic developments, with
relatively short update cycles. However, Bitcoin does not
undergo significant changes at this point so that we expect
all Bitcoin-related descriptions to remain valid in the future.
Ethereum has declared its intent to release a new version with
several significant changes, including a transition from PoW
to PoS. However, no studies of the new version have been
published ahead of the release so that we base our survey
on the current operational version. While Hyperledger Fabric
continues to be under active development, the new versions
introduce new features and performance optimizations, switch
to a different default consensus implementation, and modify
the chaincode features and structure. They do not radically
change the fundamental design of each layer, which we
discuss in our survey. Finally, IOTA IRI is currently the best


【第6页】
documented version of IOTA that is presented in the white
paper [31].
Table I maps the blockchain roles to the entities of different
blockchain implementations. In the following, we explain the
functionality of each entity and the interactions happening
between the entities.
A. Bitcoin
In the Bitcoin deployment, neither update access nor query
access is restricted. Bitcoin participants are called Bitcoin
nodes in the Bitcoin terminology. They are split into two cate-
gories: full and lightweight. Some roles are only performed by
full nodes, which act as both block acceptors and recorders of
the whole blockchain. Upon receiving a newly broadcast block
from the network, they verify it using the previously stored
data and potentially append it to the blockchain. Additionally,
full nodes bear higher responsibility w.r.t. dissemination in the
Bitcoin network as we explain in Section IV-C. A subset of
full nodes is designated as miners that continuously attempt
to create and propose new blocks.
Lightweight nodes are also called simplified payment veri-
fication (SPV) [32] nodes. SPV nodes neither store the entire
blockchain nor participate in the decision of accepting new
blocks. They can however, use the SPV method to verify
that a block header is valid and that a given transaction is
included into the blockchain. To this end, they can retrieve
block headers and specific secure hashes from a full node and
employ a Merkle verfication algorithm. Merkle verification is
explained in Section IV-B.
Both full and lightweight nodes are able to create transac-
tions, thereby playing the role of a transaction creator. This
effectively means that the separation between the entities is
more blurred in Bitcoin (and similarly in Ethereum) compared
to say, Hyperledger Fabric and IOTA. In particular, both terms
of “lightweight node” and “lightweight client” are used in
Bitcoin to refer to the same entities.
Transactions are propagated to the miners that play the
role of proposers. As common for large-scale deployments,
the Bitcoin network cannot sustain every miner making a
proposal at an arbitrary point in time because of the scalability
barrier and potential DoS attacks by the miners. It is therefore
needed to moderate the number of proposers and rate of
concurrent proposals. The entire Bitcoin system must attain
a balance with respect to the proposal rate: a high rate will
hamper scalability while a low rate will limit progress and
transaction throughput. Furthermore, Bitcoin must achieve
that moderation through distributed mechanisms, without a
centralized moderating entity. In order to keep the rate down,
Bitcoin introduces a Proof-of-work (PoW) mechanism: When
forming a block, a miner needs to solve a cryptopuzzle by
performing a heavy computation and showing the proof of it,
in order for the block to be accepted by other full nodes.
For the Bitcoin system, there are dedicated services which
act as query responders: they provide information for any
computing device on the Internet even if the device is not on
the Bitcoin network. However, these services can only handle
fixed basic query types so that they are not as semantics-rich
as specialized databases. Additional information about queries
in blockchain systems is given in Section IV-D.
B. Ethereum
The entities in the Ethereum system and the interactions be-
tween them are similar to those in Bitcoin. However, Ethereum
introduces a number of additional underlying concepts and
mechanisms not present in Bitcoin. The most central of those
concepts is that of gas: since transactions in Ethereum can
be Turing-complete programs, it is impossible to predict how
much of computational and storage resources a transaction will
consume. It is only feasible to monitor resource consumption
at runtime and abort the transaction if it exceeds the permitted
budget. Ethereum manages budgets for executable units such
as transactions, blocks, smart contracts, etc. These budgets are
measured in gas and paid for by the creators of transactions.
Ethereum assigns gas cost to resources (operations and storage
units). When a transaction executes an operation, Ethereum
deducts the cost of that operation from the budget. In Sec-
tion IV, we consider additional concepts and mechanisms in
the context of each layer and cover them in detail.
C. Hyperledger Fabric
As Hyperledger Fabric is designed for use in private
blockchain systems, it does not have the concept of miners.
Furthermore, its entities and their responsibilities are com-
pletely different compared to Bitcoin and Ethereum. There
are three types of entities in Fabric: application clients, peers,
and orderers. Clients are computing devices that constitute
the application running atop blockchain and play the role
of transaction creators. They are external to Fabric and they
connect to participants in the Fabric network. The peers are
authenticated and authorized participants in the Fabric network
that constitute the core of the private blockchain network.
The orderers are dedicated computing devices provided by the
Fabric deployment.
The flow in Fabric is as follows: Clients send every proposed
transaction to the endorsing peers (also called endorsers),
which are a subset of all peers determined by the endorsement
policy. More precisely, the endorsement policy defines the
smallest set of endorsers that need to endorse a transaction in
order for it to be valid [33]. The endorsers typically come from
different organizations within the consortium that deploys an
application.
Endorsers are responsible for simulating the transaction
without updating the blockchain and verifying if the update
causes a conflict with the current state or with the policy. If an
endorser approves the transaction, it identifies the set of data
read and updated by the transaction, which is called a read-
write (or R-W) set. Then, the endorser sends the R-W set back
to the client, along with the endorser’s signature. If transaction
approvals obtained by the client are insufficient according
to the endorsement policy, the flow effectively terminates.
Otherwise, the client submits the endorsed transaction and the
R-W set to the ordering service.


【第7页】
Table I
MAPPING ROLES TO THE ENTITIES OF DIFFERENT BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS
Blockchain system
Transaction creator Proposer
Acceptor
Recorder
Query responder
Query issuer
Bitcoin
Nodes
Miners
Full nodes
Full nodes
Dedicated services on top of
full nodes
Everyone2
Ethereum
Nodes
Miners
Full nodes
Full nodes
Dedicated services on top of
full nodes
Everyone
Hyperledger Fabric
Application clients
Application clients, endorsers
& orderers
Orderers & peers
Peers
Application-dependent
Application clients
IOTA
Clients
Nodes
Nodes
Nodes & permanodes
Dedicated services on top of
nodes & permanodes
Everyone
1 Everyone means any networked device
Ordering service consists of orderers which are responsible
for receiving the endorsed transactions and their R-W sets
from different clients, ordering them, and forming a block.
The orderers run a consensus protocol to achieve ordering
of transactions. Once produced by the consensus protocol, a
block is disseminated to all of the peers in the system. Peers
validate the block’s transactions by checking whether the R-W
sets still match the current state of the blockchain. Finally, the
peers add successfully verified blocks to the blockchain and
update the state.
All peers store blocks, thereby playing the role of data
recorders. There is no equivalent of Bitcoin and Ethereum
lightweight nodes in Fabric. Orderers may be configured to
store blocks as well.
In the above flow, the role of acceptors is distributed
between endorsing peers in the first phase, orderers in the
second phase, and all peers in the third phase. For example,
the peers may reject the block produced by the orderers, if it
is malformed or if it causes an inconsistency.
Since the deployment scale of private blockchains such as
Fabric is typically smaller compared to a public blockchain
such as Bitcoin, the significance of having a proposer role is
reduced accordingly, see Section II-C. However measures to-
wards improving scalability are still taken: Endorsers perform
pre-authorization of transactions, clients themselves may abort
the flow if the approvals are insufficient as per the endorsement
policy, while orderers batch transactions and form blocks.
Regarding query issuers and responders, application clients
issue queries in Fabric, while the peers which keep the state
respond to those queries.
D. IOTA
Similar to Bitcoin and Ethereum, IOTA is a permissionless
blockchain system. IOTA organizes transactions into bundles
instead of blocks. The main difference is that a bundle groups
related transactions together; a single transaction in a bundle
cannot be understood or performed independently of other
transactions in the bundle. For example, IOTA differentiates
between input transactions that may combine funds from
multiple input addresses together and output transactions that
may split a sum into multiple output addresses. A bundle
commonly contains related input and output transactions, as
well as transactions of other types. More details are given in
Section IV-B.
The main purpose of grouping transactions in a block in
Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Hyperledger Fabric is to improve the
throughput of the consensus protocol that is used to update
the ledger. Bundles cannot be used to this end because they
cannot combine unrelated transactions. Interestingly, IOTA
achieves higher throughput compared to Bitcoin and Ethereum
by organizing bundles in a directed acyclic graph (DAG) as
opposed to organizing blocks in a chain. We provide a detailed
discussion in the context of the storage and data manipulation
layers in Sections IV-B and IV-D.
The roles and responsibilities in the IOTA deployment are
shared by three main entities: a) clients b) nodes and c)
permanodes. Clients are external to the IOTA network. They
connect to IOTA nodes via the HTTP API and interact with the
network through the nodes. A client is responsible for creating
transactions and forwarding them to a node.
Nodes are interconnected together to form the core of the
IOTA network. After having received a transaction from a
client, a node needs to validate it. If the transaction passes
the validation, the node will create a bundle as we discuss
later, in Section IV-D4. To prevent spamming and DoS attacks,
nodes have to solve low-complexity cryptopuzzles in order
to propose bundles. Having performed the low-complexity
PoW, the node attaches the bundle to the local copy of the
ledger called the Tangle [31] and propagates the bundle to the
network. Nodes run a consensus protocol to synchronize their
copies of the Tangle.
Note that unlike Bitcoin and Ethereum, nodes do not create
competing proposals for updating the ledger. Accordingly,
there is no concept of mining in IOTA. Since nodes do not
need to perform any significant computation, they are not
rewarded for participation in the system either. Nodes are also
able to answer limited queries about the Tangle but this is not
their primary purpose.
Permanodes are dedicated nodes, many of which are pro-
vided by the IOTA Foundation itself. Similarly to nodes, they
store a copy of the Tangle. However, they are external entities
to the IOTA network: they do not receive bundles from the
clients or participate in the consensus protocol. Instead, they
receive Tangle updates from nodes. Their main purpose is
to support complex queries. To this end they store Tangle
information in a special database, as explained in detail in
Section IV-B.
In summary, clients play the role of transaction creators


【第8页】
and proposers. Nodes play the role of acceptors (validating
the transactions in the bundle), recorders (storing the bundles
in the local ledger), and query responders (supporting services
with simple queries). Permanodes play the role of recorders
and query responders; yet they support richer queries com-
pared to nodes.
IV. UNDERSTANDING BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS LAYER BY
LAYER
As we discussed in Section II-D, blockchain systems are
categorized into six different layers: hardware, data storage,
communication, data manipulation, contract, and application.
We now analyze the features and implementation of each layer
in the four selected blockchain systems.
A. Hardware Layer
While blockchain implementations are primarily software-
based, hardware components are used for two purposes: im-
proved efficiency and enhanced security. In particular, im-
plementations of open blockchain systems such as Bitcoin,
Ethereum, and IOTA, are resource-bound: there is a hardware
resource that limits the ability of a single proposer to propose
numerous changes to the blockchain at a fast rate. The exact
resource varies across the systems, however. On the other
hand, this is not required in permissioned blockchain because
of a tight membership control. Table II highlights related
aspects for the analyzed systems.
As mentioned in Section III, miners in Bitcoin require to
perform costly and time consuming computations in order to
create a valid block. They need to solve a cryptopuzzle by
exhaustively going over the solution space and calculating
a hash value for each potential solution, which results in a
massive amount of hash computations. Therefore, the Bitcoin
technology is strongly dependent on the processing power of
the miners. Nowadays, the most common hardware for the
purpose of mining bitcoins are ASIC processors [22]. They
are designed specifically for the purpose of computing Bitcoin
hashes in an optimized way.
In contrast to Bitcoin, Ethereum follows ASIC-resistant
approach in its hardware layer. The goal of choosing such
an approach is coming up with a puzzle that reduces the
gap between the most cost-effective customized hardware
and what most general-purpose computers can do, so that
it would be economical for individual users to mine with
the computers they already have [22]. To achieve this goal,
Ethereum uses a different PoW algorithm compared to Bitcoin,
called ethash [34]. The ethash algorithm needs 64 sequential
page fetches from the memory to generate a single hash
and compare it with the cryptopuzzle target. Since ethash is
bound by the speed of memory access rather than computation,
speeding up the processor computation by ASICs does not
help in a significant way. Furthermore, since an expensive top
performing computer only has moderate improvement in the
speed of memory access compared to commodity hardware,
vertical scaling does not have a strong effect on the efficiency
of mining in Ethereum. Hence, utilizing GPU processors,
which can solve cryptopuzzles faster than CPUs [35], is more
cost-effective for mining in Ethereum. This has an additional
effect that cryptopuzzles in Ethereum can be less computa-
tionally intensive. On the other hand, the power consumption
of GPU is higher compared to ASIC so that the net effect on
power consumption in Ethereum is not clear.
The design of cryptopuzzles in both Bitcoin and Ethereum
facilitates parallel computation, which increases the risk of
mining power centralization in the hands of powerful players.
While ethash limits the potential of vertical scaling for mining,
horizontal scaling is widely used in both systems.
As there is no concept of mining in Hyperledger Fab-
ric, it does not need specialized hardware components to
boost the efficiency, unless required by a specific application.
While IOTA does not use blocks and does not employ the
concept of mining or monetary rewards, it still uses a less
computationally intensive version of cryptopuzzles in order
to prevent denial-of-service attacks. Therefore, IOTA is also
dependent on the computation power of participating nodes.
Since resource-limited IoT devices is the main focus of IOTA
implementations [36], IOTA has developed a proprietary low-
energy processor called JINN [37]. The main purpose is to
expedite the computation of relevant cryptographic primitives,
though currently the computation is typically done in software.
Besides computation power, bandwidth is another critical
resource in IOTA since IoT devices are also bandwidth-
limited [38].
A major focus of the blockchain technology is to provide
tamperproof storage in absence of trust in individual par-
ticipants. In view of this, a number of initiatives such as
Teechain [39] have tried to enhance the security of Bitcoin
and Ethereum by taking advantage of the hardware-based
Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) technology, such as
Intel® SGX processor [40]. TEE is designed to create a more
secure computation environment for the processor by isolating
and protecting the running application against unauthorized
access or tamper by the host machine. While the use of TEE
still requires the trust in the TEE manufacturer, it mitigates
potential attacks by individual blockchain participants.
B. Data Storage Layer
The purpose of the storage layer is to record all transactions
in a distributed ledger and provide support for their efficient
verification. While simple transactions merely transfer finan-
cial tokens, general transactions represent transitions in the
global system state. It is important to keep track of the state,
e.g., in order to perform verification of transactions. While it is
possible to reconstruct the most updated state by starting from
the initial state and replaying all transactions recorded in the
ledger, this would be a time-consuming and inefficient process,
especially since the ledger size is continuously growing. As a
result, all blockchain systems store explicit information about
the current state in addition to the transactions. However, the
systems differ in terms of what state-related information they
store and in terms of how they organize it. Additionally, the
storage layer provides support for verification of transactions


【第9页】
Table II
HARDWARE LAYER OF DIFFERENT BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS
Features
Bitcoin
Ethereum
Hyperledger Fabric
IOTA
Limiting resource
Processor
Memory bandwidth
Application-dependent
Processor & network bandwidth
Cryptopuzzle solving device
ASIC
GPU
No cryptopuzzles
Proprietary processor (being phased out)
Additional hardware for security
(Research initiatives)
Hardware-based trusted
execution environment (e.g.
Intel SGX processor)
Hardware-based trusted
execution environment
Application-dependent
No additional hardware
issued by the clients and for computation on the state in the
ledger.
The rest of the storage layer description covers state tracking
approach, general organization of blockchain storage, the
block structure, structure of transactions and their grouping
in blocks, on-disk storage, the use of trees in Bitcoin and
Ethereum, in-memory storage, and data retention. Table III
presents a comparison of salient storage design aspects across
the four systems.
1) State Tracking Approach: So far, all blockchain systems
have been employing one of the two principal approaches for
tracking system state. Bitcoin employs the unspent transac-
tional output (UTXO) approach while Ethereum falls under
the arbitrary state approach. IOTA follows the UTXO approach
with a minor modification, as we explain below. Fabric does
not track state by default but the application developer can
devise and plug in any desired implementation with some
restrictions. The two approaches differ by generality, compact-
ness of transactions, simplicity and efficiency of storage orga-
nization, ease of parallelizing transaction processing, as well
as transaction linkability, i.e. that ease at which a transaction
can be linked to an individual user.
In the UTXO approach, a transaction transfers currency
tokens by consuming a number of input tokens and producing
a number of output tokens. For example, suppose Alice has
previously received 6 tokens in a single transaction. In this
case, the six tokens become identifiable transactional outcome
(TXO), which is marked as unspent. Assume Alice later wants
to transfer 4 tokens to Bob. She can use the six token UTXO
as the input to the new transaction. During the transaction
execution, the protocol will verify that the UTXO has not been
spent. Then, three new UTXOs will be created: one UTXO
with transaction fee will be transfered to the block creator,
one UTXO worth 4 tokens will be transferred to Bob while
another UTXO worth two tokens minus transaction fee will
be transferred back to Alice. Additionally, the old six token
TXO will be marked as spent. In the UTXO approach, the
system only keeps track of the unspent transactional outputs
because they can be used as input to future transactions. Since
there is no concept of accounts or wallets at the protocol level,
the “burden” of maintaining a user’s balance is shifted to the
client side. Wallets maintain a record of all UTXOs associated
with a user and compute the total sum, which represents the
balance. However, this balance is inaccessible to all but the
user who owns the wallet.
The UTXO approach in IOTA slightly differs in that the
term of “address” is used to refer to a collection of multiple
TXOs because an address can be reused to receive funds in
multiple transactions, thus acting as a pseudo-account. The
storage system in IOTA keeps track of all transactions that
have transferred funds to a given address. Like a TXO, an
address can only be used once when sending funds such that
the entire amount is spent. This minor difference in IOTA does
not have a significant impact on the properties of the UTXO
approach, which we discuss below.
The arbitrary state approach is more general in that it
supports arbitrary state rather than just tokens transferred be-
tween the users. This naturally leads to more complex storage
structures compared to the UTXO approach. In particular, it
is common to keep the state partitioned. For example, each
user in Ethereum has an associated account and the state
is partitioned by those accounts so that the state tracking
approach in Ethereum is commonly referred to as “account-
based”. Since there exists no single public deployment of
Hyperledger, the state in Hyperledger is kept separately for
each proprietary deployment. Besides, the worldstate in Fabric
is further partitioned per channel. The configurable nature of
Hyperledger allows an application developer to choose an
appropriate approach per partition, based on the application
needs.
Since the general state may be of an arbitrarily large size,
a question of limiting the state size arises. This challenge is
mitigated in permissioned blockchains by the ability to have
a tighter control over the behavior of each particular user
and application. In public blockchains, on the other hand, the
users need to be disincentivized from storing too large of a
state. This is achieved in Ethereum through the gas spending
mechanisms mentioned in Section III-B: the users pay gas
not only for transaction execution but also for state storage,
proportionally to the state size.
The per-account state in Ethereum includes the user bal-
ance as well as any additional variables required for general
calculations. In the above example, a transaction transferring
four tokens from Alice to Bob would need to check Alice’s
balance, decrease it, and add the funds to Bob’s balance.
A single user may receive many token transfers in the
UTXO approach and may own many unspent TXOs simul-
taneously. This means that when limited to applications that
transfer currency tokens, the blockchain state may grow with
the number of transactions over time, whereas in the account-
based approach, the state size only depends on the number
of users. In this scenario, the account-based approach may
require less storage compared to the UTXO approach. Besides,
a single UTXO-based transaction may take many input TXOs


【第10页】
Table III
DATA STORAGE LAYER OF DIFFERENT BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS
Features
Bitcoin
Ethereum
Hyperledger Fabric
IOTA
State tracking
approach
UTXO
Account-based
Application-dependent
UTXO
Higher-level structure
Sequence of blocks with
transactions
Sequence of blocks with
transactions
Sequence of blocks with
transactions
DAG of transaction
bundles with edges
signifying approvals
Maximum
block/bundle size
1 MB block fixed by the
protocol
Block’s gas limit
determined by miners
Configurable block size as
per application
Unlimited bundle size
On-disk
storage
Ledger
storage
Block data as multiple
files of limited size each
Block data as multiple files
of limited size each
Block data as multiple files
of configured size
Tangle stored in a
RocksDB database
Index
Block index in a
LevelDB database
-
Block index in a
LevelDB database
-
State-
related
storage
UTXO set in a LevelDB
database
Each vertex of tries (state,
storage, receipts, txs) in a
LevelDB database
Worldstate in a LevelDB or
CouchDB database
Balance info stored in
RocksDB database
Extra
storage
elements
Each block file has a
corresponding undo file
to support
reorganization/fork
All block data (block
header and transaction
data) in a LevelDB
database
-
Snapshot data as a file
In-memory storage
Block index database,
UTXO cache, & Merkle
trees of transactions
Cache of Merkle Patricia
tries vertices
Application-dependent; peer
cache
Tangle Accelerator (proxy
cache for IOTA nodes)
Data retention
No retention policy
State tree pruning
No retention for ledger;
application-dependent for the
state
Snapshot purges the
database
and may produce many output TXOs. This makes the verifica-
tion protocol less efficient compared to the simple verification
procedure in the account-based approach.
On the other hand, the UTXO approach may allow for better
parallelization of transaction processing. For example, if Alice
wants to transfer one UTXO to Bob and another to Carol, the
two transfers can be handled in parallel. In contrast, Alice’s
balance would need to be checked sequentially in the account-
based model, which would require serialization of the two
transfers.
The UTXO approach also has an edge when it comes to
privacy, specifically hiding the link between the user and
her transactions and balance. In the account-based approach,
the system maintains the user’s balance and keeps explicit
association between the transactions and accounts. No such
association is maintained in the UTXO approach so that the
state cannot be linked to an individual user.
As mentioned in the beginning of this section, Fabric does
not provide any implementation for state tracking that would
be included in the installation. The application developer,
however, can implement any state tracking approach in Fabric
using the key-value store provided to this end. If a financial
application needs to maintain user accounts with correspond-
ing balances, the account name can be used as a key while the
balance will be included in the value. The UTXO model can be
implemented in the key-value store of Fabric as follows [41].
First, every UTXO can be represented as a unique key-value
entry in the store. Any unique identifier created for the UTXO
can be used as a key. The value will specify (a) the amount of
cryptocurrency that the UTXO holds and (b) the reference
to the owner of the UTXO, which can be represented in
different ways, such as the public key or the Fabric identity.
Any transfer transaction will spend old UTXOs and destroy
their entries in the store. It will also create new entries, one
for each new UTXO.
2) Organization of blockchain storage: The storage orga-
nization is conceptually similar in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and
Fabric. The transactions are grouped together into blocks to
improve scalability of the consensus protocol as explained
in Section IV-D. The blocks are stored in files on disk. To
provide tamper resistance, the individual blocks are linked to
each other to form the logical structure of a chain. Since each
block includes a hash pointer to the previous block in the
chain, tampering with one block would affect the hash values
in all subsequent blocks in the chain.
In addition to the chain of blocks, the storage includes a
key-value store for keeping auxiliary information, e.g., related
to the system state as explained in Section IV-B1. An increased
emphasis on the state storage and state-related operations
(such as search) in Ethereum results in significantly more
complex storage mechanisms compared to Bitcoin. Besides,
the balance of roles between the chain of blocks and the key-
value store is fundamentally different in Bitcoin and Ethereum
because a key-value store lends itself better to state-related
operations. In Bitcoin, search for blocks and even transactions
is conducted primarily using the chain of blocks, with the
help of a block index maintained in the key-value store. In
Ethereum, on the other hand, block headers and transactions
are duplicated in the key-value store, which is the main storage
element used in the search. Furthermore, much of the data kept
in the key-value store is organized in cryptographic search
trees (henceforward referred to as cryptographic tries), while
Bitcoin only constructs trees in memory and for a different
purpose, as we elaborate upon in Section IV-B6.


【第11页】
IOTA is different from Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Fabric in
three respects: there are no blocks, the structure is different
from the linked list, and the transactions themselves are stored
in a database rather than a ledger. As opposed to the chain
of blocks, IOTA utilizes a directed acyclic graph (DAG). In
essence, the vertices represent transactions while the edges
signify approval of the transactions. A new transaction has to
verify and approve two existing transactions in order to be
included in the DAG. Accordingly, the consensus algorithm
significantly differs as we explain in Section IV-D4. When it
comes to storage, DAG storage requires more space compared
to systems that use a chain of blocks. This is because there are
more vertices in the DAG than blocks in a chain, and every
vertex has non-trivial meta-information attached to it.
3) The block structure in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Fabric:
The key differences in the block storage structures in Bitcoin,
Ethereum, and Fabric are mainly due to two important design
choices: a) record keeping model and b) consensus protocols.
As the account model requires more storage to represent the
association between the accounts and the balances, the block
structures for account models are relatively complex compared
to those for UTXO. As we detail in Section IV-B5, Ethereum
has to keep track of the states and changes associated with
each account in contrast to UTXO-based Bitcoin.
The block body in all three systems includes a list of
transactions. In Ethereum, it additionally includes a list of
uncles (whose concept is explained in Section IV-D2).
The block header in all three systems contains the parent
block hash. This hash is inherent to all blockchain systems
that create a chain of blocks and presents the cornerstone
for the immutability property. The hash is only calculated
after the block formation has been completed; thus, a hash
of the block cannot be included in the block itself. Instead,
Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Fabric nodes compute the block hash
when they receive the block from the network. Fabric nodes,
however, additionally store the hash of the block data in the
block header.
Nonce is another important field in the block header of
blockchain systems that use mining such as Bitcoin, Ethereum,
and IOTA; it contains a solution for the block cryptopuzzle. In
Ethereum, the header additionally includes a hash of the uncle
list stored in the block body, as explained above. Furthermore,
Ethereum stores the root hash for each of the multiple search
tries in the block header, as we explain in Section IV-B6.
Considering the permissioned nature of Hyperledger, the
block storage structures in the system include the real identity
and signatures of the clients, endorsing peers, and the orderer.
Such identities are not present in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and
IOTA. Furthermore, invalid transactions may be included as
part of the confirmed block due to the working principles
of the consensus protocol of the Hyperledger as explained in
Section IV-D. Therefore, there is a filter flag for each stored
transaction, which is used to differentiate between valid and
invalid transactions in the block.
4) Structure of transactions and their grouping in a block:
The maximum number of transactions that can be grouped
Figure 3. An Ethereum transaction structure
together is determined by the maximum size of the block.
For example, in Bitcoin, the maximum size of the block is
fixed by the protocol at 1MB. The transaction size in Bitcoin
varies since a UTXO transaction can have multiple inputs and
multiple outputs. Unlike Bitcoin, Ethereum uses the concept of
gas to determine the size of the block. Every transaction in the
block has a gas price and the sum of prices for all transactions
in a block should not exceed the maximum gas limit of the
block set by Ethereum miners. In the case of Hyperledger, the
maximum block size can be configured by the administrator of
the network, in accordance with the application requirements.
While not using blocks, IOTA utilizes the concept of bun-
dles. A bundle is a group of transactions that are tied to each
other. The need for bundles arises because, unlike Bitcoin,
transactions in IOTA are limited in terms of the maximum
allowed number of inputs and outputs. Since proposing each
transaction in a bundle requires a separate proof-of-work puz-
zle (see Section IV-D5), these limits translate to the maximum
number of inputs and outputs permitted for each puzzle; longer
bundles would thus require more work. Thus, if Alice wants to
consolidate funds from multiple addresses and transfer those
funds to several different users, she would need to create a
bundle with multiple transactions. Thus, the entire bundle is
issued by the same client. The size of the bundle is determined
by the input; it is unpredictable and beyond the system control.
Furthermore, IOTA does not have a predefined limit on the
number of transactions in the bundle.
In the IOTA implementation presented in this survey [42],
the bundles can be used as a vertex in the DAG as opposed
to individual transactions.
Bitcoin transaction structure is described both in the spec-
ifications [43] and textbooks [22] in detail. Its main fields
are the list of inputs and the list of outputs common in the
UTXO model as explained in Section IV-B1. As Ethereum


【第12页】
does not follow the UTXO model, it has a different transaction
structure. As shown in Figure 3, the transaction structure in
Ethereum includes the following information:
Account nonce (called nonce in Ethereum code [44]): An
Ethereum node issuing transactions on behalf of the user
maintains a counter of the number of transactions sent from
the user’s account. When the transaction is issued, the node
sets account nonce to the current value of the counter. Keeping
track of this count over time is important for two reasons: first,
it establishes sequential order between transactions sending
funds from the same account so that the miners or validators
will process the transactions in that order. Second, the account
nonce prevents transaction replay attacks by the recipient of
funds because a repeated transaction with the same nonce will
be detected as invalid.
Gas price (called gas price in Ethereum code) is the price
of each unit of gas, expressed in Ether.
Gas limit (called gas in Ethereum code) is the maximum
amount of gas that can be consumed by executing this trans-
action.
Recipient (called to in Ethereum code) is the address of
the transfer receiver.
Amount (called value in Ethereum code) is the value to be
transferred to the recipient.
Payload (called data in Ethereum code): If the transaction
is meant to be an execution of a contract (the recipient is a
contract account), the payload field would be a message that
identifies the function and argument values of the contract.
Otherwise, if the transaction is for payment (the recipient is a
user account), the payload field would be empty.
Signature values: This field includes components of the
signature algorithm of the sender. Ethereum transactions use
ECDSA (Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm) [45]
as their digital signature for verification. The signature of
a transaction confirms that the sender has authorized this
transaction.
In Hyperledger Fabric, the design of the transaction struc-
ture depends on the application and state tracking approach
chosen for the specific deployment.
5) On-disk storage: The most important element stored on
the disk is the ledger. Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Hyperledger
Fabric store their block data as multiple files, each of which
is limited in size. Although the file size limit is fixed in Bitcoin
and Ethereum, it is configurable in Hyperledger Fabric [46].
Block files store the blocks appended to the local copy of the
ledger [47].
Bitcoin additionally stores block indexes on the disk to keep
track of the information available in the chain of blocks. These
indexes are stored in a LevelDB (key-value store) database.
Similar to Bitcoin, Hyperledger Fabric utilizes indexes. By
default, Fabric also stores indexes in LevelDB but it can be re-
placed by other databases. The primary purpose of the indexes
is to support search functionalities for blocks and transactions
stored in the file through various keys such as a block number,
block hash, transaction id, and transaction number. The values
of the LevelDB key-value store are corresponding file location
pointers to the chain of block files [47], [48]. When an API
call to access blocks and transactions of the blockchain occurs,
these search indexes are utilized to find the actual data location
in the file. On the other hand, Ethereum relies on a database
for keeping track of changes and finding data items, so that
has no need for indexing the files.
State-related storage is another salient on-disk element.
Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Hyperledger Fabric use a database of
key-value pairs for keeping track of the latest blockchain state.
In Bitcoin, the UTXO set which stores all unspent outputs is
all information that is required to validate a new transaction
without the need to traverse the whole blockchain [49]. Bitcoin
keeps the UTXO set in a LevelDB storage called chainstate.
On the other hand, Hyperledger Fabric keeps track of the
latest values of the business assets in its state-related storage
called worldstate. The state-related storage of Hyperledger
Fabric is represented on the disk as a LevelDB key-value store
by default. The keys and values of the state-related storage
reflect the data model described in the application chaincode,
as defined by the developer (see Section IV-E). In Fabric,
if the business application requires a complex data model
and access pattern, various other databases such as CouchDB,
GraphDB, and a relational datastore can be used to represent
the worldstate instead of LevelDB. These alternatives support
rich queries and data types [50]. Similarly, Ethereum stores
the latest values of all the accounts in a LevelDB database
as the state-related storage to facilitate calculating the current
value of any account available in the ledger. For this purpose,
Ethereum constructs the following four tries:
State trie represents the global state that efficiently stores
the mapping between all the addresses and accounts.
Storage trie is responsible for maintaining the relationship
between the account and the corresponding balance. State trie
is linked to the storage trie.
Transactions trie represents the transactions that change
the state of the Ethereum.
Receipts trie represents the outcome of the successful ex-
ecution of transactions.
Individual systems additionally maintain auxiliary meta-
data stored on the disk. In Bitcoin, each block file has a
corresponding undo file which contains the information that is
necessary to roll back and remove a block from the blockchain
in the event of a reorganization/fork [47]. In Ethereum, in
addition to storing block data as files, all block data including
the block header and the block body is stored in a LevelDB
database as shown in Figure 4.
Due to the different organization of blockchain storage
in IOTA as described in Section IV-B2, Tangle is stored
in a database rather than in files. Thus, all the information
about both transactions and balances is kept in the RocksDB
database. As an extra element, an IOTA node keeps snapshot
data (explained in Section IV-B8) in a file. Each time a new
snapshot arrives, it removes all transactions from the Tangle,
i.e. RocksDB database, and moves only non-zero balances to
a file in order to be used by the new pruned Tangle. Thus,


【第13页】
Figure 4. On-disk storage of Ethereum consists of the block data and database records
similarly to Hyperledger Fabric, IOTA maintains only the
current balances associated with the addresses.
6) On the use of trees in Bitcoin and Ethereum: Bitcoin
and Ethereum use trees to organize data items (transactions
and in the case of Ethereum, other data elements related to
state tracking) in the context of a given block. The trees are
cryptographic: every non-leaf vertex stores a secure hash value
for each of its child vertices. This way, tampering with a
single tree vertex n, or inserting a new vertex n will lead to
modification of all the hashes on the path from n to the root
of the tree, making it easily detectable. Due to this, the hash
of the root vertex becomes a cryptographic fingerprint of the
entire tree structure. Because of its significance, the hash of
every root vertex is kept in the corresponding block of Bitcoin
or Ethereum for the sake of verification.
However, Bitcoin and Ethereum use trees for different pur-
poses, and accordingly, their implementation is quite different.
Bitcoin uses binary Merkle trees as shown in Figure 5. For
a given block, the tree is constructed as follows: each leaf
represents a block transaction. The order of leaves corresponds
to the deterministic order in which the transactions are listed
in the block body. Each non-leaf vertex is created by com-
puting a secure hash of the concatenation of the two child
values. Due to this construction, the tree is deterministically
reproducible from the block body stored on the disk. This is
important because Bitcoin constructs Merkle trees in memory
on demand.
The main purpose of utilizing Merkle trees in Bitcoin is to
minimize the amount of bandwidth used for disseminating the
proof that a given transaction is included in a given block. It is
a typical situation that a Bitcoin lightweight node, without the
knowledge of the ledger, inquires about the inclusion status
of a particular transaction in a new block. To this end, the
node sends a verification request including the transaction
hash to a full node which keeps track of the ledger. The
full node first needs to locate the Merkle tree of the block
in memory and then, sequentially scan the leaves of the tree
in order to verify the inclusion. While a sequential scan is
not an efficient operation, its inefficiency does not have a
strong impact because the number of transactions in a block
is relatively small. However, once the transaction is found,
the full node can construct the Merkle proof efficiently [51].
The Merkle proof includes all vertices on the path from the
leaf with the transaction to the root of the tree, along with
the children of these vertices. The full node can then send the
Merkle proof back to the lightweight node. The crucial point
is that the lightweight node can verify the inclusion based on
the Merkle proof, without requiring the rest of the vertices in
the Merkle tree. The size of the Merkle proof is logarithmic
with the size of the Merkle tree.
In addition to constructing Merkle proofs, there are in fact
very few operations supported by Bitcoin Merkle trees. Miners
benefit from being able to efficiently append new leaves with
transactions because new transactions can arrive while mining


【第14页】
Figure 5. Bitcoin’s transaction Merkle tree
a block. Merkle trees allow for efficiently implementing this
particular type of vertex insertion because a new transaction
becomes the rightmost leaf. Additionally, the trees can be
pruned: for example, if we do not need to verify the inclusion
of Transactions 1 and 2 in Figure 5 any longer because their
TXOs have already been spent, we can remove corresponding
leaves, along with their hash vertices. We do need to keep the
vertex with Hash(Hash(TX1)+Hash(TX2)), however, for the
purpose of constructing Merkle proofs, as explained above.
On the other hand, vertex search, update, and deletion are
neither needed nor efficiently supported.
This is in a stark contrast with Ethereum, which uses the
trees for storing the state, in addition to transactions. Unlike
transaction history which is fixed, the state in Ethereum needs
to be frequently changed: new accounts are inserted and old
accounts are deleted. The state of a particular account needs to
be searched and updated as well, potentially often. Ethereum
uses Merkle Patricia trie, which provides logarithmic complex-
ity for search, insertion, update, and deletion, in addition to
efficient construction of Merkle proofs. Similarly to the Merkle
tree, data items are stored in the leaves. However, Merkle
Patricia trie is a prefix tree that uses hashing mechanisms to
produce a key string that determines the path of the data item
within the tree. Normally, prefix trees create a new tree level
for each character in the key: the first character will determine
the branch at the root, the second character will determine the
branch at the next level, and so on. However, Merkle Patricia
trie is a compact radix tree: if there are two vertices with
keys “abcd” and “abef” respectively, an intermediate vertex
with the key “ab” will be created. This vertex will have two
direct children corresponding to “abcd” and “abef”, without
any additional intermediate levels. In Ethereum, the key is
encoded as a hexadecimal value so that each vertex has at
most 16 children.
The key string that determines the path is produced differ-
ently for each trie type. For the state trie, each leaf corresponds
to an account in Ethereum. The key string is derived from
the hash of the account address, while the value of the leaf
includes the balance and the root hash for the storage trie of the
account. For the storage trie, each leaf represents an Ethereum
contract’s data. The key string is derived from the hash of the
Ethereum contract’s address, while the values reflect the data
model described in the Ethereum smart contract. An updated
state of an Ethereum account is retrievable by traversing the
storage trie vertices in the LevelDB database.
As shown in Figure 4, each vertex of every Ethereum
Merkle Patricia trie is stored as a separate record in the
LevelDB storage. The key for the record is derived from the
hash of the trie vertex and stored in the parent vertex record.
Since the hash for the root vertex is stored in the block header,
it is used as the starting point for finding other trie vertices
in the database, which allows for an efficient traversal of the
entire trie.
Figure 4 provides an illustration for the storage organization
on disk in Ethereum. Header and body for Block 2 are stored
in both Block 2 data file(s) and in the database. The header
contains root hashes for the state, receipt, and transaction tries.
Each root hash is a key for the corresponding root vertex
record in the database. From the root record of the state trie,
we can reach the branch vertex record, which points to Leaves
1 and 2B, each of which corresponding to a different account.
The record of Account 2B points to the root of the storage
trie for that account. The pointers between the vertices of the
storage trie in the database are presented in a similar way.
Another interesting functionality of Ethereum is that it
continues maintaining correct tries for old blocks, not just for
the most recent block. For example, we can query the value of
an account or the value of a variable (maintained by a smart
contract) in a past block, even if those values have later been
updated. This functionality allows for an efficient verification
of transactions of block n: when applied on the state of block
n − 1, these transactions, if valid, will update the state to
that of block n. To implement this functionality in a space-
efficient fashion, Ethereum uses an interesting variation of
the copy-on-write technique, as illustrated in Figure 6. While
the transaction and receipt tries are strictly separate for each
block, the state and storage tries can be partially shared across
the blocks. In the illustration, the key for the state record of
Account 1 in Block 1 hashes to value b10a5. The record is
placed in Leaf 1, which is the leftmost child of the branch
vertex. Similarly, the key for the state record of Account 2 in
Block 1 hashes to value b1d14 and it is placed in Leaf 2A. The
state of Account 1 has not been modified by the transactions of
Block 2. Therefore, the branch vertex in Block 2 points to the
same record of Leaf 1 as the branch vertex in Block 1. On the
other hand, the state of Account 2 has been modified by the
transactions of Block 2. Since the path to the state of Account
2 is the hash of the account address i.e., b1d14, Ethereum
creates a new record called Leaf 2B in the same path under
the branch vertex in Block 2 to update the balance. Due to
the creation of a new leaf record, Ethereum also creates new
branch and state root vertices in Block 2. Note that by starting
from the old root vertex in Block 1, we can still find the old
state of Account 2.
Storage tries are updated in a similar way. As a result,
the state and storage tries are only partially updated due to
the transactions in every new block. In reality, the changes
in the state and storage tries of each Ethereum block are


【第15页】
Figure 6. Constructing tries across multiple blocks in Ethereum
fairly small [52], which makes the copy-on-write technique
described above particularly effective.
7) In-memory storage: Bitcoin creates Merkle trees in
memory on demand, when a need arises (see Section IV-B6).
As mentioned in Section IV-B6, the trees are deterministically
reproducible in memory from transactions stored on disk.
Furthermore, in Bitcoin, the entire LevelDB database of block
indexes is loaded into memory on startup to achieve a better
performance of finding the blocks [47]. UTXO cache is
another critical data structure maintained in Bitcoin mem-
ory [53]. As the UTXO set stored in LevelDB is accessed
frequently during block validation, the access time becomes a
major bottleneck. Therefore, during the block validation, the
required unspent coins are pulled from LevelDB into an in-
memory cache. Since the size of the entire UTXO set exceeds
8GB, cache management is required.
In Ethereum, different node implementations such as Geth
maintain an in-memory cache of configurable size, designated
for vertices of various tries. In the context of Hyperledger
Fabric, when using a state database, read delays during
endorsement and validation phases have historically been a
performance bottleneck. With Fabric v2.0 [54], a new peer
cache replaces many of the expensive lookups with fast local
cache reads, and the cache size can be configurable. Moreover,
what is stored in the memory storage of Hyperledger Fabric
depends on the implementation of the application. Finally,
IOTA uses Tangle Accelerator [55], which is an intermediate
caching proxy server between the client and IOTA node to
speed up the attachment process of a bundle to tangle.


【第16页】
8) Data Retention: Data retention is performed differently
in each of the representative blockchain systems. The ledger
in Bitcoin grows more slowly compared to Ethereum and
IOTA because Bitcoin stores less data per-block compared
to Ethereum and because new blocks are appended less
frequently compared to ledger changes in Ethereum or IOTA.
As a result, Bitcoin is less in need for ledger pruning mech-
anisms. For the time being, Bitcoin does not have any data
retention policy and keeps all of its transactions forever. As a
consequence, the storage on Bitcoin full nodes can potentially
grow large in size over time, which may become an even
bigger issue if Bitcoin manages to overcome its scalability
barrier and raise the average rate of transactions.
Similar to Bitcoin, Ethereum keeps its transactions forever
in the ledger. However, Ethereum has a state trie pruning
mechanism [52] for obsolete states. This mechanism tracks
when trie vertices are no longer referenced by the state trie
(for example, the Leaf2A vertex in Figure 6 has dropped out of
the state trie in Block 2), and at that point places the dropped
vertices on a death row in the database. From this point,
after 5000 new blocks have been appended, the vertex will be
permanently deleted from the database. Essentially, Ethereum
stores the trie vertices that are part of the current state or part
of the recent history [52] (up to 5000 recent blocks).
Similar to Bitcoin and Ethereum, transactions on the ledger
will never be deleted in Hyperledger Fabric. However, data
from the worldstate database can be deleted if an application
developer defines the procedure of pruning obsolete data in
the implementation.
IOTA provides snapshots regularly in order to reduce the
size of storage needed by nodes. The snapshot process removes
all the transaction history and the addresses with zero balances
and creates the list of addresses with a non-zero balance
to reduce the Tangle size [56]. This in turn speeds up the
time required to do synchronization among nodes. Another
advantage is that the snapshot can indirectly improve the
throughput of transactions in IOTA by increasing the speed
of computing the balance for the accounts. Considering the
nature of permanodes (refer to Section III-D), the snapshot
process does not have any impact on their storage.
C. Communication Layer
Comparison between the communication layer features of
the surveyed blockchain systems is shown in Table IV. Only
full nodes are part of the blockchain network in Bitcoin; they
receive all blocks and transactions by running the dissemina-
tion protocol. Lightweight nodes connect to the full node of
their choice. Unlike full nodes, lightweight nodes only receive
a subset of transactions, filtered for them by the full nodes to
which they are connected [57]. Furthermore, lightweight nodes
rely on full nodes for propagating transactions to the network.
In terms of receiving blocks, lightweight nodes download only
the block headers from the full nodes. Ethereum is absolutely
identical to Bitcoin in terms of network formation and the
division between full and lightweight nodes. Fabric and IOTA
are also quite similar in this regard: peers constitute the peer-
to-peer network in Fabric while clients connect to the peers
which selectively relay transactions and blocks from and to
the clients. In IOTA, clients connect to the network of IOTA
nodes, the latter relaying bundles from and to the clients.
In order to manage the granularity of dissemination, Hyper-
ledger Fabric is using the concept of channels. Transactions
submitted and propagated in a channel are isolated from the
other channels. The channels are independent of each other in
terms of the order, delivery, and processing of the transactions.
On the other hand, transactions in Bitcoin, Ethereum and IOTA
are propagated through the whole network.
Next, we consider the communication protocol and prop-
agation time for each of the four systems. In Bitcoin, each
full node sends inventory messages (inv) [58] periodically
to advertise its knowledge of transactions or blocks to the
neighbors in the network. This advertisement contains the
hash value of the transactions or blocks as their identifiers,
which is much shorter than the actual transaction or block.
Then, each neighbor that receives the advertisement checks if
it mentions knowledge of transactions or blocks the neighbor
has not seen before. In this case, the neighbor requests the
missing transactions or blocks from the sender via the getData
message [58].
Experiments in [59] indicate that it takes about 40 seconds
for a new block to propagate to 95% of the Bitcoin network
(the mean time to receive a block for a full node is 12.6
seconds). This time includes the transmission time (for inv
message, getData message, and delivery), as well as the
verification time. The propagation time is likely to be even
shorter for the transactions compared to blocks.
In Ethereum, a miner that creates a block or another full
node that receives a new block from the network use the same
propagation protocol. Namely, the full node considers a set S
of its neighbors and picks a random subset S′ ⊂ S of size
|S′| =
�
|S|. Then, the full node forwards the entire block
to full nodes in S′ while only sending a hash of the block to
full nodes in S\S′. The neighbors receiving the hash of a new
block request the block header via a GetHeader message [60]
from either the sender or any of their neighbors that possess
the block. Finally, after getting the new block header, the
Ethereum full node requests the block body in a way similar
to requesting the header.
The study of [61] shows that 95% of the blocks are propa-
gated through the Ethereum network within 211 milliseconds
(the average time of a block propagation delay is stated to
be 109 milliseconds). An experiment in [60] estimates that it
takes only 3 or 4 hops to broadcast a new block to the entire
Ethereum network. This small world of an Ethereum network
compared to the Bitcoin network can be the reason for the
lower block propagation time in Ethereum.
Peers in Hyperledger Fabric use both push and pull methods
in the communication protocol [62]. In the case of block
dissemination, a leader is selected from the peers. The leader
becomes responsible for pulling blocks from the orderers and
then initiating a push-gossip protocol to propagate the blocks
to the peers: Each peer broadcasts the blocks to a random


【第17页】
Table IV
COMMUNICATION LAYER OF DIFFERENT BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS
Features
Bitcoin
Ethereum
Hyperledger Fabric
IOTA
Granularity of
dissemination
Whole network
Whole network
Per channel
Whole network
Entities forming the
network
Full nodes
Full nodes
Orderers and peers
Nodes
Communication
protocol
Inventory
push-gossiped & blocks
pulled by full nodes
Blocks or block hashes
push-gossiped & block
headers and bodies pulled
leader pulls blocks from
orderers & push-gossips
to peers
Push-flooding
Mean time to
receive a block
About 12.6 seconds
About 109 milliseconds
Application-dependent
No studies conducted
Ordering
guarantees
No guarantees
No guarantees
Totally ordered
broadcast
No guarantees
Privacy &
security
guarantees
No guarantees
Proprietary deployment can
enable encrypted &
authenticated messages
Authenticated channels
Authenticated and
encrypted messages,
partial anonymity
Initial peer
discovery
Through a set of DNS seeds
or direct conn. to a known
full node
Through a set of
bootnodes or direct conn. to a
known full node
Anchor peering &
channel membership
Manual conn. through a
node list
Geo-proximity in the
network
135 ms (avg.) peer-to-peer
latency
171 ms (avg.) peer-to-peer
latency
Depends on consortium
network topology
No studies conducted
set of neighbors in the channel. In addition to push-gossiping,
each peer is also responsible for selecting a number of random
peers regularly and attempting to pull the missing blocks
from them. The design choice to use a leader for initiating
push-gossip is motivated by the need to reduce the load of
sending blocks from the orderers to the network. Orderers
in Hyperledger Fabric also enforce basic access control for
channels, restricting who can read and write data to the
channels, and who can configure them [63]. In Fabric, the
propagation time is dependent on application characteristics,
especially on the transactions type and network size.
In IOTA, the transactions are flooded throughout the net-
work similarly to Ethereum. On the other hand, since no
studies have been conducted for the propagation time in IOTA,
it can be considered an interesting subject for future research.
Regarding the ordering guarantees, Hyperledger Fabric is
the only system among the blockchain systems covered in this
survey which supports total-order broadcasting [64] within
each communication channel. This guarantee ensures that
different endorsers and orderers receive transactions from each
given client ordered in the same way relatively to the trans-
actions from other clients. The relative order of transactions
is important because of the effects that the transactions may
have on each other.
To support privacy and security guarantees, transferred
transactions between the Ethereum nodes are encrypted and
authenticated [65], which makes the Ethereum communication
layer more secure compared to Bitcoin. Furthermore, Whis-
per [66], a configurable messaging protocol, which can be
enabled in proprietary Ethereum deployments, provides the
benefit of hiding the location of sender and receiver in the net-
work, if such privacy requirements arise. Whisper can achieve
this benefit by using onion routing and other techniques
common in the Tor [67] network. Hyperledger Fabric utilizes
the authenticated channels to provide the privacy and security
of the network. IOTA has also introduced the functionality of
issuing and accessing encrypted data streams by implementing
the Masked Authenticated Messaging (MAM) protocol [68] as
a second layer communication protocol to improve the privacy
and security of the communication layer.
Geographical
proximity
between
participants
in
the
blockchain network is one of the parameters that have ef-
fect on the block propagation time throughout the network.
Measurements in [65] indicate that Bitcoin exhibits a higher
degree of clustering compared to Ethereum, i.e., it has many
more groups of full nodes that are geographically close to each
other. The measurements also show that an estimated peer-to-
peer latency between Ethereum full nodes is 26.7% higher on
average compared to Bitcoin. The main reason for this higher
clustering degree is that many Bitcoin full nodes are running
in data centers. This research claims that 56% of Bitcoin full
nodes belong to autonomous systems that provide dedicated
hosting services whilst the percentage for Ethereum full nodes
is 28%. On the other hand, in permissioned blockchains such
as Hyperledger Fabric, geographical proximity between peers
depends on the consortium network topology. To the best of
our knowledge, geographical proximity between IOTA nodes
has not been studied yet.
D. Data Manipulation Layer
Data manipulation in blockchain primarily consists of two
operations: updating the state of the blockchain and query-
ing it. Since the transactions stored in the blockchain are
immutable, the only update operation allowed is adding a
new transaction to the ledger, which additionally results in
performing bookkeeping needed to keep track of the up-
dated state. While the goal is simple, the update process
is quite complex because it requires running a consensus
protocol across the participants in the blockchain network.
The blockchain type and even design goals vary across the
systems, which results in significant variations in the flavor
of consensus protocols used [30], [69]. This is the reason


【第18页】
Table V
DATA MANIPULATION LAYER OF DIFFERENT BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS
Features
Bitcoin
Ethereum
Hyperledger Fabric
IOTA
Consensus protocol
Chain convergence
using longest-chain rule
Chain convergence using
GHOST protocol
Configurable consensus module
(Raft is the default)
DAG convergence using tip
selection algorithm
Mining difficulty
About 10 minutes to
mine a block
About 12-15 seconds to
mine a block
No mining
No mining
Throughput (tps)
3-7
About 15
Configuration-dependent
About 50
Mining power
utilization
Above 99%
Below 97%
No mining
No mining
Transaction
confirmation
Probabilistic based on
the number of blocks
Probabilistic based on the
number of blocks
Deterministic,
after committing on the peers
Probabilistic based on
confirmation confidence
Mitigating DoS
attacks
PoW
PoW + Gas price
Permissioned
authentication
PoW
Rich search
functionality
No
No
SQL-like query
No
why blockchain systems exhibit significant variations in their
performance and in security assumptions and threats they can
withstand. Besides, the performance is affected by deployment
characteristics, such as the blockchain network, transaction
rate, duration of transaction execution, and the distribution
of mining power in systems that use mining. Accordingly,
most of this section is dedicated to the update protocol in
the four systems considered. For each system, we also discuss
the security and performance properties. Table V shows the
differences in the features of the representative blockchain
systems in the data manipulation layer.
Querying the blockchain is conceptually much simpler than
updating it because it does not require coordination across
the participants in the blockchain network and because the
scalability and security constraints are not nearly as severe.
However, the differences in blockchain types and stored data
(see Section IV-B) lead to different query models.
Finally, security plays a very important role in the design of
the data manipulation layer. Yet, different blockchain systems
exhibit differences in the security assumptions and tolerated
threats so that there exist no easily identifiable baseline to com-
pare blockchain systems against. For example, the issues of
branching and concentration of computing power in the hands
of a single participant (or a group of colluding participants) is
a major consideration for Bitcoin and Ethereum. However, it
is a non-issue for Hyperledger Fabric which does not use PoW
and where the branching is impossible due to the consensus
protocol being deterministic. The security model behind IOTA
has only been partially explored and defined. Accordingly,
we discuss security aspects of each system separately in
the context of presenting the consensus protocol. However,
all blockchain systems must be resilient to denial-of-service
(DoS) attacks, which is why we include a focused discussion
comparing the defense mechanisms to DoS attacks in all four
systems.
1) Updating blockchain in Bitcoin: The mechanism of
updating the blockchain in Bitcoin has been presented in
other survey works (see Section V) and in a textbook [22].
In this section, we provide an extended description written in
a pedagogical way. While containing limited novelty by itself,
this description serves as a basis for comparison with the more
novel descriptions of updating the blockchain in the other three
systems, presented in the later sections.
The general flow of updating the blockchain can be found
in Section III-A. What is especially interesting about the
blockchain update solution in open blockchain such as Bit-
coin is that it is fully self-moderated: the nodes are fully
autonomous. They do not have to follow the complex protocol
but do so because they are given a combination of incentives
and protective mechanisms. For example, the consensus pro-
tocol is very sensitive to the rate of proposals: too many and
the protocol stops to scale; too few and the system does not
make any progress.
The PoW mechanism prevents the miners from issuing
proposals at too high of a rate. The rate is regulated by
the complexity of the cryptopuzzle, called mining complexity.
Bitcoin adjusts the mining complexity every 2016 blocks so
as to keep the average interval between consecutive block
proposals limited to 10 minutes. To be precise, every miner
in Bitcoin adjusts its own mining complexity independently
based on its local copy of the chain. However, since the
adjustment is based on the height of a block and not on the
data in the chain, every miner performs the same adjustment
after the same block number, which ensures fairness of mining.
In order to keep the rate up, Bitcoin incentivizes miners
to spend their resources on solving cryptopuzzles. Specifi-
cally, it introduces two incentive mechanisms: (a) a block
creation reward that is given to a miner whose block has
been successfully included into the chain, and (b) a transaction
inclusion fee that a transaction creator may voluntarily pay to
the miner that includes the transaction into the proposed block.
The block creation reward is regulated by Bitcoin similarly
to the mining complexity. It is halved every 210000 blocks.
Taking into account the average 10 minute interval between
consecutive blocks, the reward is expected to become zero
before 2140. Currently, the block creation reward plays a
more important role than a transaction inclusion fee but as
the reward gets smaller, the transaction inclusion fee will
start playing an increasingly more important role. Every block
includes a single transaction assigning block creation reward
to the proposer; this is the only mechanism by which Bitcoin
injects new funds into circulation. In order to increase the


【第19页】
chance of receiving block creation reward, a group of miners
can organize themselves into a mining pool. Then, all members
of the pool work together to mine each block, and the revenue
of mining a block is shared among them.
In Bitcoin, there is no entity in the system that knows the
precise state of the updated global chain. Every full node is
trying to approximate the updated knowledge of the global
chain by maintaining a local copy of it (ledger and UTXO
information as explained in Section IV-B); the full node may
update the local copy upon receiving a new block proposal.
As different Bitcoin miners may create and propagate different
valid block proposals in parallel, the local ledger copies on
different full nodes may temporarily diverge. In the example
of Figure 7, Block 2a and Block 2b are both valid and
created in parallel as successors to Block 1. This situation
when different blocks are referring to the same predecessor
block is called a fork in the blockchain. In addition to the
accidental fork creation which happens because of concurrent
block proposals, there are also intentional forks. Whenever
the blockchain protocol is updated (for example when the
block size is changed) on a subset of nodes, it can result into
two types of fork: hard and soft. In the hard fork situation,
the nodes with updated protocol cannot interoperate with the
nodes running the old version of the protocol at all. A hard
fork can lead to creation of a new cryptocurrency. For example,
Bitcoin Cash [70] has been created as a hard fork of Bitcoin,
and is now completely independent of Bitcoin. On the other
hand, soft forks support backward compatibility. It means
that transactions from nodes running the old protocol are
accepted by the nodes running the new one, but transactions
created by the new protocol addresses are not accepted by the
old nodes. Segregated Witness (SegWit) [71] is an example
of a soft fork. SegWit is created as a protocol upgrade of
Bitcoin to improve block capacity and prevent the transaction
malleability (changing a transaction after signing it) problem
by introducing a new transaction structure.
In the case of accidental fork creation, the miners have
to decide which of the branches will be included in the
main chain and which branch will be discarded. In order to
reach a consensus on the included branch, Bitcoin has the
longest chain rule for resolving conflicts between competing
branches [32]. This rule stipulates that the longest branch
wins and becomes part of the main chain for building the
subsequent block upon. The rationale for this rule is that the
longest chain corresponds to the biggest amount of work on the
cryptographic puzzles; by including this branch and discarding
shorter branches, we are wasting the least amount of work.
Eventually, the local copies converge to the same global state.
In the example of Figure 7, Block 3 points to Block 2a
as its predecessor while ignoring Block 2b. This may happen
because the miner creating Block 3 received 2a before 2b.
In this case, Block 2b is discarded according to the longest
chain rule despite being valid and verified. It is called a stale
(sometimes called orphan) block [72].
It should be noticed that because the convergence of the
local copies is only eventual, this complicates the reasoning
Figure 7.
Bitcoin chooses the main chain based on the longest chain rule.
Any valid block outside the main chain will be ignored and called a stale
block.
about the blockchain state. A full node may attempt to infer
information about the global state based on the local copy,
without any consultation with other full nodes. The most
common case of inference is when a full node tries to
establish whether a given transaction has been included in the
blockchain. The inference is correct with a certain probability,
which never reaches 100%: A transaction A may be included
in a block and added to the local copy, but at a later time,
a different branch may become the longest and win the race,
in which case A will not be included in the chain. However,
the more subsequent blocks are added to the local copy after
the block BA containing A, the longer the branch in the local
copy becomes, which reduces the probability that a competing
branch not including BA will become longer yet. In Figure 7,
transaction A (TX A) and transaction B (TX B) are included in
Block 2a and Block 2b respectively. The inclusion probability
of transaction A in the main chain is increased by creating
Block 3 upon Block 2a, while, the chance of inclusion in the
chain for transaction B is reduced since it is not included in the
longer chain. A more precise calculation of probabilities for
the finality of transaction inclusion can be found, e.g., in [73].
Bitcoin full nodes use this reasoning to provide a confirmation
about the inclusion of transactions: after 6 subsequent blocks
are included into the local copy, the full node considers the
probability high enough to send a confirmation to the user.
For example, a transaction may transfer a fee in bitcoins to a
service provider.
However, a malicious miner that owns more than 50% of the
network mining power, may overcome the network by mining,
producing valid blocks, and building longest chains faster than
the rest of the network. In particular, it gains the ability to
tamper with the data and subvert the blockchain. This situation
is called a 51% attack. The miner performing the attack
can exploit the situation in different ways, such as ignoring
some specific transactions or depriving the competing miners
from receiving block creation rewards. It can also define a
new policy and impose it onto the network. As an example,
the exact amount of block creation reward is configurable
and subject to an agreed policy. An attacker will be able to
increase the block creation reward in hope that the attacker
will be mining most blocks and ripping the benefits of a higher


【第20页】
reward. Furthermore, the attacker that owns more than 50%
of the network mining power can perform a double-spending
attack, that is to transfer the same virtual coin in two different
transactions. For example, an attacker creates one transaction
to send some bitcoins to a recipient in exchange for a service
or product. This transaction is included in Block 2b, which is
appended to the blockchain. Let us denote the predecessor of
Block 2b as Block 1 (see Figure 7). After receiving the service
or product from the recipient of the transaction, the attacker
creates another transaction that sends the same bitcoins to a
different address of his own. The powerful attacker quickly
creates and mines Block 2a with the new transaction, and then
creates and mines Block 3 as a successor of Block 2a, in order
to ensure that Block 2a is included in the longest branch, and
that Block 2b becomes stale. As a result, the attacker gets the
service or product without paying any bitcoins for it.
The probability of a 51% attack being successful depends
on a number of factors [74], above all those contributing to
the presence of forks. The situation illustrated in Figure 7 is
undesirable from the security point of view. This is because
Block 2b does not contribute to securing the main chain so that
the attacker requires less mining power to subvert the chain. To
capture this point, [75] has introduced the metric of mining
power utilization, which is defined as the ratio between the
mining power that secures the main chain and the total mining
power. Mining power wasted on work that does not appear
on the blockchain accounts for the difference. The higher the
mining power utilization, the more mining power an attacker
must have in order to subvert the chain.
The argument of mining power utilization is the main
reason against reducing the complexity of PoW in Bitcoin.
Even though such a reduction may improve the throughput of
transactions and reduce transaction confirmation time (that is
the time required for a transaction to reach a certain probability
threshold for being included in the chain), it will lead to
significant forking and reduced security [74], [76].
The subject of block size is a hotly debated topic in Bitcoin
where no common view has been reached. Original Bitcoin
design by Satoshi Nakamoto has introduced a limit on the
maximum block size; this limit still applies. A bigger block
size would allow more transactions to be included in the
block, thereby improving the throughput of transactions. On
the other hand, a bigger block would potentially increase the
block propagation time (see Section IV-C), which may give
an advantage to the miner of the current block who can start
mining the next block earlier before it is disseminated to other
miners. This may potentially increase the centralization in the
Bitcoin network. However, the exact effect of the latter is very
difficult to capture and analyze without deployment, which
contributes to the controversy; some believe that a limit on the
block size is artificial and can be relaxed or even eliminated.
An attack strategy called selfish mining [77] was proposed
to show that even with less than half of the network’s mining
power, misusing of the Bitcoin’s longest chain rule is possible.
The principal claim of this work is that a selfish mining
pool with 1/3 mining power of the network can still defeat
the honest mining protocol, and the revenue of a selfish
pool rises superlinearly as the pool size grows. However,
some researches such as [78] and [79] refute selfish mining
strategy’s assumptions and benefits, and claim that there is
no advantage for a selfish miner to follow the attack strategy
instead of the honest one. Selfish mining has not been observed
in the Bitcoin network in practice which reinforces these
claims. Even if a selfish mining attack succeeds in the short
term, it may lower the value of Bitcoin, which further reduces
the benefits of the attack compared to honest mining.
2) Updating blockchain in Ethereum: Conceptually, the
protocol of updating the blockchain in Ethereum is similar
to that of Bitcoin: Both systems are permissionless and use
mining. Both systems use the same entities that play the same
roles, e.g., the miners propose new blocks of transactions. In
both systems the full nodes maintain local copies of the ledger
which eventually converge but may temporarily diverge.
At the same time, the two systems exhibit significant differ-
ences related to the design goals and choices, and deployment
characteristics, as we elaborate below. These differences affect
both performance metrics (such as transaction throughput,
transaction confirmation time and chain convergence speed,
and energy consumption) as well as system security and the
risk of centralization.
With respect to design goals, Ethereum supports general
transactions written in a Turing-complete programming lan-
guage. This means that the execution of transactions them-
selves is more resource- and time-consuming in Ethereum
compared to Bitcoin. This leads to reduced throughput and
increased energy consumption. Since executing transactions
is unlikely to be as computationally intensive as solving
cryptopuzzles, the effect is likely to be less pronounced
compared to that of PoW. However, it has never been analyzed.
Another interesting aspect of Turing-complete transactions is
that it becomes absolutely essential to limit a block. However,
unlike in Bitcoin, it does not make sense to express the
limit in bytes because the block size is no longer the main
limiting factor. Instead, the limit is specified in the amount
of computation required, which is expressed in the maximum
amount of Ethereum gas consumed. Of course, the limit on
the amount of computation also indirectly restricts the length
of transactions and their number in a block and thereby, the
block size. In September 2019, the average block gas limit was
around 10,000,000 units [80], which translated to the average
block size of between 20 to 30 kilobytes [81], based on the
transaction rate and transaction computational requirements in
Ethereum at that point in time.
Another difference in design goals is that Ethereum supports
more complex state storage (see Section IV-B1), which results
in bigger state storage sizes compared to Bitcoin. While this
has an impact on most performance metrics, the exact effect
has never been scientifically studied.
Regarding design choices, Ethereum uses a somewhat dif-
ferent conflict resolution rule and a block reward model, as
well as less complex cryptopuzzles. Besides, a higher number
of subsequent blocks is required for transaction confirmation


【第21页】
Figure 8. Ethereum chooses the main chain based on the GHOST protocol.
Uncle blocks are considered when choosing the main chain (the heaviest chain
rule) and their miners are rewarded in Ethereum.
in Ethereum compared to Bitcoin. We now consider these in
detail.
For conflict resolution, Ethereum is using a modified version
of Greedy Heaviest Observed Subtree (GHOST) protocol [74]
instead of the longest-chain rule. This fact is mentioned in [82]
without comparing the original version of the GHOST protocol
with the version used in Ethereum. We believe that our analysis
below provides the first complete comparison in the literature.
The first point of departure in all versions of the GHOST
protocol compared to Bitcoin is that the miner producing a
block is incentivized to reference a limited number of stale
blocks, in addition to the previous block. In Ethereum, the
miner can specifically reference up to two stale blocks from
the header of the newly generated block, as shown in Figure 8.
The miner is incentivized to do so by increased block creation
reward for each referenced stale block. A stale block that is not
included in the main chain but referenced by a main chain’s
block is called uncle or ommer block in Ethereum. In the
example of Figure 8, Blocks 2b and 2d are uncle blocks for
the new block. The uncle block’s miner is also compensated,
so that the miner’s effort of producing the block does not go
unrewarded.
Secondly, both the original GHOST protocol and the version
used in Ethereum consider the uncle blocks and merge the
amount of work that has been done for each block in different
branches in order to choose the main chain. For example,
in Figure 8, the main chain is chosen based on the GHOST
protocol, and the result is different from the longest chain rule.
The algorithm starts from Block 0 and at each fork, chooses
the block leading to the heaviest subtree. In the given example,
the subtree of Block 1a contains 4 blocks, while the subtree of
Block 1b (prior to the inclusion of the new block) consists of
5 blocks. Assuming that each block has the same cryptopuzzle
complexity, Block 1b will be chosen. According to the same
rule, Blocks 2c and 3b are included in the main chain. Then,
a miner that wants to propose a new block, will choose Block
3b as the predecessor.
The original GHOST protocol additionally considers trans-
actions in uncle blocks when computing the blockchain state.
This element is not present in Ethereum.
Since the stale blocks are adding to the weight of the main
chain, forks are less affecting mining power utilization in
Ethereum compared to Bitcoin [83], which makes the main
chain more secure and reduces the risk of centralization. As a
consequence, Ethereum can afford shorter block creation time,
which results in a higher number of forks but also better decen-
tralization, transaction throughput, and confirmation time [74],
[76]. Specifically, the average time to solve a cryptopuzzle
is 12-15 seconds in Ethereum compared to 10 minutes in
Bitcoin [84].
Regarding the confirmation time, an Ethereum full node
confirms inclusion of a transaction after 12 subsequent blocks
are included into the local copy of the blockchain [85], in
contrast to 6 blocks in Bitcoin. The probability of a transaction
inclusion being final has not been analyzed as thoroughly
for Ethereum as it has been for Bitcoin. However, as the
Ethereum’s block creation time is shorter compared to Bit-
coin’s, Ethereum transactions are confirmed faster.
Table VI presents a summary of the discussion in this
section, with a particular emphasis on how each design dif-
ference in Ethereum compared to Bitcoin affects a variety of
performance and security metrics. The comparison is based on
the conceptual differences rather than empirical measurements.
For example, the fact that transactions in Ethereum are Turing-
complete programs may make them much more computation-
ally intensive compared to simpler transactions in Bitcoin,
resulting in worse throughput, higher energy consumption,
and increased confirmation time. It does not mean, however,
that actual Ethereum transactions are more computationally
intensive in practice because the users may be unwilling to
exploit the capabilities provided by Ethereum and pay the
higher gas price of such transactions. The “unknown” entries
signify research gaps: they indicate that it is difficult to
assess the impact without further analysis and that the volume
of studies analyzing the effect of the corresponding design
element on a particular metric is limited.
Finally, the characteristics of the main Ethereum deploy-
ment, namely the Ethereum network, distribution of the mining
power across the miners, and the rate and computational
requirements of transactions have a non-trivial impact on
the performance and security metrics. An empirical study
of various metrics in Ethereum is available in [65]. Such a
study can only evaluate the actual performance of the system
as a whole; it cannot evaluate the effect of each design
element separately from the rest of the system. This work
shows, e.g., that the mining power utilization in Ethereum is
97% compared to 99% in Bitcoin. Besides, the throughput in
Ethereum is 15 transactions per second [86] compared to 7
transactions per second in Bitcoin [87].
3) Updating blockchain in Hyperledger Fabric: The con-
sensus protocol in Hyperledger Fabric is fundamentally differ-
ent from those in Bitcoin and Ethereum. First, the entities are
different as explained in Section III-C. Second, Fabric provides
the ability to partition a consortium network into independent
channels so that each channel can execute a consensus protocol


【第22页】
Table VI
HOW DIFFERENCES FROM BITCOIN AFFECT VARIOUS PERFORMANCE AND SECURITY METRICS IN ETHEREUM
Factor
Throughput Confirmation time
Energy consumption Decentralization and Mining power utilization
General transactions
worsens
worsens
worsens
worsens
Complex storage
worsens
worsens
worsens
unknown
Considering uncles
unknown
unknown
unknown
improves
Less complex cryptopuzzles
improves
improves
improves
worsens
Deployment characteristics
unknown
unknown
unknown
unknown
in parallel and independently of other channels. In a sense,
there is a separate ledger maintained for each channel. Besides,
only authorized peers can participate in the consensus for
each channel, as determined by the consortium policies and
related channel configuration. Third, the consensus protocol
in Fabric is deterministic unlike Bitcoin and Ethereum where
there could temporarily be divergent branches of the ledger
that eventually and probabilistically converge. In Fabric, there
cannot be divergent branches and the transaction becomes final
and 100% confirmed relatively fast.
A different class of consensus protocols leads to a re-
markable contrast in performance characteristics. As discussed
in Sections IV-D1 and IV-D2, Bitcoin and Ethereum can
achieve throughput of 3–7 and 12–15 transactions per second
respectively when updating the ledger. On the other hand,
[88] has shown that the throughput in Hyperledger Fabric
can reach many thousands of transactions per second with
specific optimizations in place, as we discuss in the later
part of this section. While providing a high transaction rate,
the deterministic consensus protocol in Fabric does not scale
well w.r.t. the number of peers in any single channel. At the
same time, the probabilistic consensus protocols of Bitcoin
and Ethereum can handle the scale of many thousands of full
nodes, which is beyond the reach for Fabric [30].
Ledger update in Fabric is performed in three phases called
proposal, ordering, and validation [63]. In the proposal phase,
clients send every transaction proposal to the endorsers (see
Section III-C), which are responsible for simulating the trans-
action without updating the database. The endorsement policy
specifies which endorsers a transaction is sent to for approval,
and how many endorsements are needed for a transaction.
For example, a policy can specify that m signatures out of
n endorsers are enough for a given transaction to proceed to
the ordering phase.
During the ordering phase, the orderer service runs a con-
sensus protocol and decides on the order in which concurrent
endorsed transactions will be executed and added to the
ledger. Hyperledger Fabric uses pluggable modules for the
ordering service which allows for significant configurability.
Currently, the Raft [63] implementation based on the Raft
protocol [89] is the recommended option due to being easier to
set up and manage compared to the alternatives [63]. However,
PBFT [90], Apache Kafka [91], BFT-SMaRt [92], SBFT [93],
and other implementations can also be used as the orderer
service for Hyperledger Fabric. The choice of the implemen-
tation and specific consensus protocol may significantly affect
the throughput of adding transactions to the ledger.
Additionally, the resilience of the entire ledger update pro-
cedure is mainly inherited through the fault-tolerant guarantees
offered by the chosen ordering protocol. The two most popular
families of protocols for implementing ordering are Paxos
and View-stamped replication [94]. Both protocols tolerate
crash failures when the number of faulty processes is below
n/2, where n is the total number of participants. To tolerate
byzantine failures, ordering protocols such as BFT-SMaRt [92]
or PBFT [90] can be employed [69]. These protocols work
when the number of faulty participants is below n/3.
Then, in the validation phase, the orderer service sends
the block containing ordered transactions to the peers, and
the peers validate the correctness of transactions. Transactions
successfully validated and committed at this stage are never
revoked, which means that their inclusion into the chain is
final and deterministic.
It is interesting to observe that in Bitcoin and Ethereum,
the block proposer (miner) broadcasts the blocks only after
verifying that all transactions in the block are valid. In
contrast, the block proposer (orderer) in Fabric does not
validate transactions while the blocks are created in phase
two. Transaction validation only happens at the proposal (first)
phase by the endorsers and at the validation (third) phase of the
consensus protocol. While this makes the protocol susceptible
to denial-service of attacks by polluting the blocks with invalid
transactions, the permissioned access allows Fabric to make an
assumption that there is no significant incentive for the entities
participating in the consensus protocol to launch a deliberate
security attack. The design decision to offload the transaction
validation task from the block proposer confers performance
benefits in terms of higher throughput at the cost of ledger
potentially storing invalid transactions.
The study of [95] shows a number of interesting perfor-
mance characteristics of the Hyperledger Fabric as follows.
First, there is a saturation point for throughput at around 140
transactions per second (tps). When the transaction arrival rate
reaches the saturation point, the commit latency of blocks is
increased from 100ms to tens of seconds. The raise in the
latency is due to the increased number of ordered transactions
waiting in the queue for the peers to validate their correctness
in the validation phase. In other words, the validation phase
becomes the bottleneck. Furthermore, when the transaction
arrival rate is lower than the saturation threshold, the increase
in block size leads to the increase in the block creation time in
the orderer phase which in turn impacts the transaction latency.
Additionally, when the arrival rate is 50 tps, the increase in the
block size from 10 to 100 causes transaction latency increase
by a factor of five from 242ms to 1250ms. On the other hand, it
has also been demonstrated that when the transaction arrival


【第23页】
rate is higher than the saturation threshold, the increase in
block size leads to decreased transaction latency and enhanced
throughput. This is due to the fact that the time taken to
validate and commit one large block is shorter than the time
taken to validate and commit many small blocks.
Additionally, it is demonstrated in [95] that heterogeneity
in the resources of peers and networks of organizations leads
to performance degradation. Furthermore, this work shows
that increasing the number of channels, using fewer endorsers,
and performing bulk read/write operations contribute to better
throughput and reduced latency in Fabric.
Moreover, common system optimization techniques are used
in [88] to achieve end-to-end transaction throughput of around
20,000 transactions per second. Examples of these techniques
include separation of concerns (separating metadata from
data while creating blocks in the ordering service), using
parallelism and caching during the transaction validation,
and replacing the database of worldstate with lightweight in-
memory data structure such as hashtable. One of the key
assumptions in [88] towards achieving high throughput is
that the incoming transaction workload is contention-free.
When there is a high contention and a large number of
incoming transactions compete for a small set of hot keys
in the worldstate, the throughput drops down significantly as
discussed in [96].
The authors of [96] propose changes to the transaction flow
in Hyperledger Fabric to handle both high and low contention
transaction workloads. They show that the achieved transaction
throughput (3000 transactions per second) is significantly
better than in Fabric and [88] when the workload exhibits
high contention. One of the key design ideas in [96] is to
separate the dependent and independent sets of transactions
in the block and process both sets concurrently during the
validation phase. To realize this idea, a transaction dependency
analyzer is introduced, whose goal is to isolate the transactions
that are having overlap on the keys of their R-W sets with
transactions that do not have any overlaps. As a consequence,
the knowledge regarding the subset of transactions that can
be processed concurrently is gained. The dependent transac-
tions are marked invalid in the R-W set validation and will
be re-executed on the latest version of the worldstate. The
independent set of transactions that are marked valid can be
successfully committed concurrently.
4) Updating blockchain in IOTA: While the consensus
protocol in IOTA is probabilistic, it is different from the
protocols in Bitcoin and Ethereum in many respects. Neither
the concept of miner nor the chain of blocks exist in the
IOTA network. As it is explained in Section IV-B, IOTA
utilizes a specially crafted DAG called Tangle instead of a
chain of blocks. In a Tangle, vertices represent bundles (or
transactions) while the edges signify approval of the bundles
(see Figure 9). A Tangle starts with a genesis bundle and
grows as new bundles are added. Each new bundle is supposed
to validate and approve two bundles already included in the
Tangle, though there are exceptional cases when only one
bundle is validated and approved, instead of two. Similar to
the ledger in Bitcoin and Ethereum, each node participating
in the IOTA network maintains its own copy of the Tangle
and synchronizes it with other nodes; these copies may be
temporarily diverging. Figure 9 illustrates a situation where
participating nodes 2 and 3 have a partial knowledge of the
Tangle while node 1 possesses combined knowledge.
In IOTA, every node x that wants to issue a transfer of funds
has to perform the following sequence of actions:
Bundle creation: x creates a bundle including all input
and output transactions that together constitute the transfer
(see Section IV-B4). For example, node 1 creates bundle O in
Figure 9.
Weight assignment: x decides on an integer weight w for
the bundle. A bigger weight results in a probabilistically faster
confirmation for the bundle (as we explain below) at the
expense of a more significant computational effort for x.
Cryptopuzzle solution: x needs to solve a cryptopuzzle
for each of the bundle’s transactions. The difficulty of the
cryptopuzzle is proportional to w selected by x. It is however,
significantly lower compared to Bitcoin and Ethereum because
in the latter, the cryptopuzzles regulate proposal creation rate
while in IOTA they only prevent DoS attacks.
Tip selection: x selects two tips to approve where the tip is
a bundle already included in the Tangle but not yet approved
by any other bundle. For examples, bundles G, H, I, and
N are tips in Figure 9. To this end, x runs a tip selection
algorithm [31] twice, once for each tip. We describe the tip
selection algorithm in detail below. In addition to the tip itself,
the algorithm selects a path from the genesis bundle to the tip.
In exceptional cases, only one tip exists in the local copy of
the DAG maintained by x when x creates a new bundle. For
example, when node 3 created bundle K, only a single tip
J was available in the DAG. In such cases, only a single tip
is selected and approved by the new bundle. However, such
cases are fairly uncommon in practice because the deployment
involves many nodes and the rate of producing concurrent
bundles is high.
Validation: First, x validates the integrity of every bundle
on the two selected paths. If any structurally invalid transaction
or bundle is found, it is excluded from the Tangle. Secondly, x
validates that the two paths contain no conflicting bundles that
lead to double-spending. To detect possible double-spending
or prevent spending a larger sum than what is available in
an account, x needs to keep values of all addresses in all the
verified bundles on the two selected paths. If any of the values
turns negative, then we know that the paths include conflicting
transactions but we do not necessarily learn which transactions
are conflicting.
If the validation fails because of any of the above two issues,
the tip selection algorithm is invoked again to find a different
pair of tips and paths. Then, the validation is performed for
the new pair of paths. This happens repeatedly until a valid
pair is found. Some additional optimizations are implemented
in case of structurally invalid bundles, which we do not cover
in our description.


【第24页】
Figure 9. Every node has its own copy of the Tangle; copies might be diverging
In Figure 9, no bundle violates structural integrity but bundles
D and D′ are conflicting. In this case, node 1 selects a new
pair of tips as shown in Figure 10. The new pair of paths
passes the validation so that the algorithm stops.
Bundle propagation: x propagates the new bundle along
with the id of the two selected tips using the communication
layer. Interestingly, a proof of neither correct tip selection nor
performed validation is supplied in the message. When a node
other than x receives the bundle from the communication
layer, it performs the cheaper integrity validation for that
bundle. However, it does not perform an expensive detection of
double-spending nor does it traverse any path from the genesis
block to the new bundle.
Monitoring of confirmation and reattachment: The val-
idation and tip selection algorithms include a lot of random-
ness as we discuss below. Because of this randomness, some
bundles may get confirmed much faster than the others, while
some valid bundles may in fact be never confirmed and be
left behind. In view of this, x needs to monitor the Tangle
for signs of confirmation, which we also discuss below. IOTA
introduces the concept of reattachment: node 1 may create a
new bundle in the future that specifies the very same transfer
as bundle O in the illustration, and inject this new bundle into
the Tangle by performing all the above steps. In this case, the
new bundle will be conflicting with O so that node 1 should
only do it if O is not getting confirmed for a long period of
time.
The tip selection algorithm is essentially a weighted random
walk through the Tangle starting from the genesis bundle
and moving toward the tips. At each step, the algorithm
proceeds from the current bundle to one of the bundles directly
approving the current bundle. The probability of choosing a
bundle as next step is proportional to the cumulative weight
of that bundle. The cumulative weight of each bundle Y is
equal to the own weight of Y plus the sum of own weights
of all bundles that directly or indirectly approve Y . Figure 9
illustrates the cumulative weight of each bundle (denoted as
cw inside the bundles) as calculated by node 1 (the values for
nodes 2 and 3 will be different). For instance, the cumulative
weight of A is equal to the sum of weights of bundles A, C,
D, E, F, G, H, I, J, D′, K, L, M, and N. When the random
walks determines the next step from the genesis bundle, it will
make a probabilistic choice between bundles A and B based
on their cumulative weights (of 21 and 23 respectively). The


【第25页】
Figure 10. Choosing a pair of tips happens repeatedly until a valid pair is found
random walk stops when it reaches one of the tips.
Based on the above algorithm, it is clear that choosing a
bigger weight for a new bundle increases the probability of that
bundle to be selected by the random walk performed during
the tip selection. This ultimately results in probabilistically
faster confirmation for a bundle with a large weight.
Besides, it is obvious that the cumulative weight of a bundle
incrementally increases as it is getting approved directly or
indirectly by new bundles added to the Tangle. As a result,
the cumulative weight can be used as a metric for confirming
bundle inclusion in the Tangle, similarly to how the number of
subsequently added blocks is used as a metric for confirming
block inclusion in Bitcoin and Ethereum. This is important,
e.g., when a node decides to reattach the bundle. Notably,
heavy bundles tend to gain the weight faster due to the
weighted random walk. In some scenarios, this may lead to
situations when a bundle is never confirmed, thereby rendering
the reattachment mechanism essential. However, as the number
of users and transactional rate in the network increase, the
probability and speed of confirming any bundle regardless of
its weigh grow.
Apart from the cumulative weight, there exists another
metric in IOTA used for monitoring bundle inclusion. The
metric is called confirmation confidence and denoted cc in
Figure 9. The confirmation confidence of a bundle is the
percentage of the tips which directly or indirectly approve the
bundle. In Figure 9, if we consider the Tangle status on node
1 before O is included, the confirmation confidence of bundle
D is %75. This is because among the four tips of G, H, I,
and N, the three tips G, H, and I are approving D while N is
not. Note, however, that confirmation confidence is not always
a good indicator of bundle inclusion if the Tangle copies on
different nodes are diverging. For example, the confirmation
confidence for bundle K is %100 on node 3 but this is only
because node 3 does not know about bundles G, H, and I
yet.
In terms of Tangle security, several attacks and defenses
have been considered in the literature [31], [21]. The replay
attack [97], [98] performs double-spending by exploiting the
reattachment mechanism: the reattached bundle normally in-
validates the original bundle but in the attack, both bundles re-
main valid, which results in double-spending. The attack only
works under reuse of addresses, which is within the control
of the users and which the users should strive to avoid as per
IOTA recommendation. In the parasite chain attack [31], [99],
the attacker aims to replace the current Tangle with its own
subgraph, which the attacker builds in secret while taking steps
to ensure that the secret subgraph will have sufficiently high


【第26页】
cumulative weights. To perform double-spending, the attacker
initiates two conflicting transactions. The first transaction is
injected into the current Tangle while the second transaction
is included into the secret subgraph. After the first transaction
is confirmed and the attackers receives the services or benefits
for the payment, the attacker broadcasts all bundles in the
secret subgraph, which replaces the Tangle. This way the
attacker gets the second transaction confirmed as well. In
the splitting attack [31], [100], the attackers partitions the
Tangle by making sure that two subgraphs within the Tangle
maintain a similar cumulative weight over time, and injecting
transactions so as to maintain this balance. Such partitioning
allows the attacker to perform double-spending by placing two
conflicting transactions, one in each subgraph.
The author of [31] proposes the following idea to defend
against the parasite chain and splitting attacks. The probabilis-
tic choice of the next step in the random walk is governed by
parameter α in addition to the cumulative weights of candidate
vertices. A big value of α means that the vertex with a larger
cumulative weight wins with a very high probability while
a small value of α means that the winning chance for a
heavier vertex is only slightly higher. This work shows that
a large value of α reduces the risk of successful parasite
chain and splitting attacks. Unfortunately, larger values of α
increase the probability for a bundle to be left behind and never
confirmed [101], [99]. In [99], the authors propose a detection
mechanism for parasite chains, with the idea of using smaller
values of α in a normal situation but adaptively increasing
the values if a parasite chain is detected. A different idea
advocated in [101] is to modify the tip selection algorithm
so as to explicitly search for left-behind tips and increase the
chance of their selection.
Since the tip selection and validation are nontrivial algo-
rithms in IOTA, it is interesting to consider incentives to
perform them for node x that wants to issue a new bundle. This
is especially important because during the bundle propagation
phase, x does not supply any proof of correct tip selection and
validation. However, while a node receiving a bundle from x
does not perform a random walk with validation immediately,
it will do so upon creating its own bundle in the future. If
x does not perform the validation properly and approves two
tips from two traversal paths that are conflicting, this may
also negatively affect the probability of confirmation for the
new bundle produced by x. In the illustration of Figure 9,
if O approves G and N, then the conflict between D and
D′ may be discovered by a later random walk, which will
reduce the probability of O to be selected. However, there
are multiple paths from the genesis bundle to O that do not
traverse D and D′, in which case O may still be selected.
Note that if a conflict between D and D′ is later detected by
other nodes, it is impossible for them to establish whether x
deliberately neglected validation or simply was unlucky with
detection because x selected non-conflicting paths leading to
G and N during its random walk. The exact quantification
of the reduction in confirmation probability requires a very
complex probabilistic analysis, which has not been performed
in the literature to the best of our understanding.
In the context of tip selection, different tips have different
probability to be reached by the random walk. If x just
arbitrarily selects two tips without performing the random
walk, this may result in reduced probability for the new bundle
to be reached by the random walk performed by other nodes
at a later point. As a result, x will be punished by a higher
confirmation time. On the other hand, x may minimize the
confirmation time for its bundle by performing a deterministic
walk which selects a vertex with the biggest cumulative weight
at each step. Eliminating the randomness during the walk may
exacerbate the problem of heavy vertices gaining weight very
fast, resulting in a higher number of reattachments. There exist
considerations, however, that detract from the benefits of such
a selfish node strategy, as outlined in [31].
The consensus algorithm in IOTA is relatively lightweight
and scalable in the sense that it can sustain a higher rate of
adding new transactions to the storage and confirming them.
This improvement eliminates the need in two design elements
present in the other three systems we consider: batching
transactions into a block and having long intervals between
consecutive blockchain updates. As a result of allowing shorter
intervals between updates, PoW is much more lightweight in
IOTA compared to Bitcoin and even Ethereum. While the typ-
ical IOTA throughput has been reported as 45-50 transactions
per second [102], IOTA has mentioned a throughput of above
500 transactions per second achieved under a proprietary
stress test [103]. These advantages do come at a cost. Since
discovery of conflicts is probabilistic, it may take a lot of
time until double-spending is discovered. The Tangle storage
requires more space compared to systems that use a chain of
blocks, as explained in Section IV-B2. Most importantly, the
paths produced by the tip selection algorithm become long as
the Tangle grows, resulting in a very expensive verification
procedure.
To address the challenge of scaling the Tangle and the
validation algorithm, IOTA employs a snapshot process that
prunes the transaction history (see Section IV-B8) and shortens
validation paths by creating a new snapshot bundle that effec-
tively serves as a new genesis bundle. The snapshot process is
periodically performed by the IOTA Foundation, which goes
against the blockchain spirit of eliminating the trust in any
single entity or organization. The Coordicide project [104] is
focused on removal of coordination and in particular, the need
for a snapshot process.
5) Defense against DoS attacks: DoS attacks in Bitcoin,
Ethereum and IOTA are mitigated by the Proof-of-Work mech-
anism. As discussed in Section III-A, a PoW algorithm re-
quires solving cryptographic puzzles for creating new blocks.
If a message with a new block or transaction does not contain
a valid solution to a cryptopuzzle, the message is rejected
without further processing, which makes it easier for the
system to filter out spurious messages.
However, PoW requires a significant amount of energy [105]
and wasted computation performed by legitimate miners.
Proof-of-Stake (PoS) protocols were developed as energy-


【第27页】
saving alternatives to PoW [106]. Instead of solving a cryp-
topuzzle as in the PoW, a block creator is selected based on
its stakes (the number of digital tokens that it holds) in PoS.
As there is no heavy computation process in PoS, the block
creation time is much shorter than in PoW, thereby resulting
in a higher transaction throughput. In order to prevent DoS,
a block proposer needs to make a deposit to gain the right
to make a proposal. Since the deposit is locked until the next
block is selected, this makes it more expensive for the miner
to create multiple proposals within a short period of time.
Besides, the deposit can be confiscated for malicious behaviors
such as performing a DoS attack.
The Ethereum network has developed the Casper pro-
tocol [107] in an attempt to ease the transition from the
current PoW protocol to a pure PoS protocol. Ethereum 2.0
will deploy the Casper protocol on top of the existing PoW
protocol, prior to switching to a pure PoS protocol in future
releases. So, while blocks are still going to be mined via PoW
in Ethereum 2.0, every fixed interval (every 50 blocks [108])
is going to be a PoS checkpoint where the finality of blocks
is assessed by a dynamic committee that votes via a BFT
protocol. To join the committee, a validator has to make a
deposit to gain a voting right proportional to that deposit.
An additional vector of attacks for a user in Ethereum is
to inject a computationally- or storage-expensive transaction
that would consume resources on all of the full nodes in the
network. The gas budget concept (see Section III-B) plays
an essential role in defending against this attack: the attacker
itself would need to pay a substantial amount of gas in order
to launch the attack.
While IOTA is using PoW as well, the cryptopuzzles in
IOTA are much simpler compared to Bitcoin and Ethereum
which leads to a higher throughput. The reason for choosing a
lower-difficulty PoW in IOTA is that IOTA uses PoW just as
a spam protection [104]; whereas, in Bitcoin and Ethereum,
PoW is additionally used for controlling the rate of block
production. On the other hand, a separate PoW is required
for each transaction in a bundle since a bundle may theoreti-
cally contain an unlimited number of transactions. While the
current implementation of IOTA is utilizing a simple PoW
mechanism, the IOTA Coordicide [104] project has proposed
an adaptive rate control mechanism which intelligently adjusts
the difficulty of the PoW per IOTA node based on different
factors, such as a number of recently-issued transactions and
reputation of the issuer [104].
Hyperledger Fabric does not have a single main deployment.
Instead, there is a multitude of proprietary deployments, where
each deployment is partitioned by channels (see Section IV-C).
Besides, the system is permissioned and requires authorization
for joining each channel. These factors significantly mitigate
the risk of DoS attacks.
6) Querying blockchain: In Section IV-B, we describe
different data items stored by the data recorders of each
blockchain system. Any data stored by the recorders can in
principle be locally queried by them. If a data recorder acts
as a query responder, it can essentially answer any queries
related to the stored data that are initiated by query issuers.
However, the fact that the data is stored does not nec-
essarily mean that there exist means to query it efficiently.
The functionality of blockchain systems is different compared
to general-purpose databases (see Section II-A). The native
implementation of most blockchain systems only efficiently
supports limited queries as simple as retrieving a data item
by its hash code. The main reason for the limited support
of queries is the limitations in the default database imple-
mentation of the blockchain systems. For example, levelDB
used in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Hyperledger Fabric as a key-
value database supports only querying based on keys. Another
reason is the way of utilizing the database for storing and
accessing data. For example, retrieving values in Ethereum
requires traversing multiple trie structures (see Figure 4 in
Section IV-B5), and accessing values associated with the
queried hash code (i.e. the key) requires searching multiple
keys over the disk, which is time-consuming [109].
Due to these reasons, supporting analytical and complex
queries (querying based on values other than keys) such
as filter, aggregation, and sorting queries on the blockchain
systems require some extra considerations and functional com-
ponents. The modularity of Hyperledger Fabric and its focus
on highly configurable proprietary deployments allow for
modifying the native implementation. Specifically, replacing
the default database module of LevelDB with CouchDB allows
for supporting more complex search semantics in an efficient
way [50]. For example, as CouchDB allows storing data in
JSON format, it is possible to query by data values, and not
just by keys. The tradeoff, however, is that CouchDB requires
more disk space for storing the data compared to LevelDB.
Research proposals of adding an extra query layer to ex-
isting blockchain systems have also emerged. For example,
EtherQL [109] supports a set of analytical queries such as
aggregation and top-k queries on top of Ethereum. These
proposals, however, have not been implemented in the actual
systems as of 2021.
The most common way of solving the issue of rich query
semantics is designating a subset of data recorders as dedi-
cated query responders (see Section II-C). In practice, query
responders maintain a separate database in addition to the
blockchain data, which allows them to answer richer queries
efficiently. Such designated query responders are used in Bit-
coin, Ethereum, and IOTA. Blockchain.com [110] and ether-
scan.io [111] are websites that allow anyone to search for a
specific address, transaction, or block on Bitcoin and Ethereum
databases respectively. However, these sites do not provide
more advanced search functionalities such as looking for trans-
actions with a specific amount of input. Some other services
store the blockchain in an SQL database and provide the ability
to issue general SQL queries. Notably, BlockchainSQL [112]
does it for Bitcoin while Anyblock [113] provides such a ser-
vice for Ethereum and some other blockchain systems. IOTA
foundation provides a website (explorer.iota.org [114]) as an
external dedicated service for querying IOTA. This website
supports basic search functionalities for the IOTA Tangle based


【第28页】
on keys, such as searching based on a transaction hash, a
bundle hash, or an IOTA address. As an example, searching
for an IOTA address through this website gives information
about the balance of the address and all transactions related to
that address. thetangle.org [115] is another external dedicated
service for IOTA, which provides visualization for a number
of specific queries.
However, such designated query responders pose two major
challenges. First, the exact rich query semantics is up to a
specific implementation; it is not standardized in any way.
Secondly and most importantly, they do not provide the
security, dependability, and availability guarantees commonly
attributed to blockchain systems. This is because they are
managed by individual computing devices that are fundamen-
tally untrusted in the blockchain paradigm. In particular, query
responders can decide on an access control policy that is not
aligned with the access control policy of a particular per-
missioned or permissionless blockchain system. For example,
Anyblock.tools provides different query services based on the
paid subscription tier of the users.
In summary, query responders serve two purposes: (a) to
provide rich query semantics otherwise unavailable in the
blockchain system and (b) to provide information to comput-
ing devices that do not belong to the blockchain network.
E. Contract Layer
The contract layer allows users of the blockchain system
to develop programmatic extensions and install them atop
blockchain. Smart contracts are similar to distributed objects
in nature. A contract implements a collection of procedures,
each of which can be invoked remotely and executed as a
transaction. A contract may additionally invoke transactions
implemented by other contracts.
Features of the different blockchain systems in the contract
layer are shown in Table VII. As Bitcoin was designed with a
specific defined application in mind, it does not implement
a general-purpose contract layer. Instead, it uses a simple
scripting system for its transactions. Each transaction con-
tains an output and an input script [22]. When a transaction
executes, its inputs are verified. Let us assume transaction
T1 has an input I, which is an output of transaction T0.
In this case, I is verified by executing the output script of
T0 followed by an input script of T1. By combining the
input script of the new transaction with the output script of
the referenced transaction, a full node can validate that the
new transaction can redeem the previous transaction output.
The reason for concatenating the input and output scripts
is that the output script specifies the verification procedure,
whereas the input script contains cryptographically secure
information about the redeeming node (specifically, the public
key and a signature of that public key), which is used as an
input to the verification procedure. Bitcoin provides a default
implementation of an output script (called scriptPubKey) and
a default implementation of an input script (called scriptSig).
This default implementation tests if the hash of the provided
public key matches the hash in the scriptPubKey, and then
checks the signature against the public key to finally validate
the new transaction. Bitcoin full nodes are responsible for
validating the transactions by executing Bitcoin scripts in their
script interpreter environment. The programming language of
Bitcoin scripts resembles Forth [116]. Similar to Forth, Bitcoin
scripts are stack-based and they use reverse-Polish notation
(processed from left to right). Since Bitcoin scripts are not
intended for writing general-purpose applications, they are
not Turing-complete [22]. In particular, the language does not
support jumps and loops so that malicious users cannot create
code that would waste the power and computing resources of
the Bitcoin network.
Instead of simple scripts, Ethereum utilizes smart contracts,
which can be used for implementing a variety of decentral-
ized applications. One of the main differences between the
Ethereum smart contracts and Bitcoin scripts is that smart
contracts are Turing complete, which is essential for a general-
purpose blockchain platform. When a contract procedure is
invoked, it is executed on top of the blockchain platform
by Ethereum full nodes, using the Ethereum Virtual Ma-
chine (EVM) environment. As discussed in the storage layer
Section IV-B, a smart contract stores its own data. Remote
invocations that update the contract state are executed under
transactional semantics.
Currently, the most common and supported language for
writing smart contracts is Solidity [117], [118]. What makes
this language popular is that Solidity is object-oriented and
high-level, and it provides a rich support for developing
contracts. Solidity has similarities to C++, Python, and
JavaScript. LLL (a low-level Lisp-like language) [119] and
Vyper (Python-derived) [120] are other popular alternative
languages for writing smart contracts. A code written in any of
these languages needs to be complied to Ethereum Bytecode
in order to run in the EVM environment.
Hyperledger Fabric also has the concept of smart contracts,
similar to that of Ethereum. However, related smart contracts
can be grouped together and packaged into a chaincode in Fab-
ric; While smart contracts are governing transactions, chain-
code governs how smart contracts are packaged for deploy-
ment [121]. When a chaincode is instantiated on a channel, an
endorsement policy is defined for it [121]. Therefore, the en-
dorsement policy applies to all smart contracts defined whithin
the same chaincode in the context of a channel. In Fabric,
unlike Bitcoin and Ethereum, transactions and smart contracts
are only executed by endorsers (see Sections IV-D3 and III-C),
which create W-R sets. The other peers validating or applying
the transaction only process W-R sets instead of executing the
code of the transaction. Currently, smart contracts of Fabric
can be written in Go, Node.js, and Java [122], which are all
Turing complete languages. Endorsers execute the chaincode
and its smart contracts in a Docker container environment
corresponding to the contract programming language [122].
Docker container is an isolated sandbox inside the endorser
whose purpose is to prevent the chaincode from accessing the
endorser’s local environment and resources.
The IOTA foundation has stated that smart contracts will


【第29页】
Table VII
CONTRACT LAYER OF DIFFERENT BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS
Features
Bitcoin
Ethereum
Hyperledger Fabric
IOTA
Type
Scripting system
Smart contracts
Smart contracts packaged into a chaincode
No support yet
(in progress)
Programming language
Forth-like
Several languages, Solidity as
the most popular one
Go, Node.js, Java
-
Turing completeness
No
Yes
Yes
-
Executing computing
devices
Full nodes
Full nodes
Specified by endorsement policy
-
Execution language
Bitcoin script
Ethereum Bytecode
Programming language-dependent
-
Execution environment
Script interpreter
Ethereum Virtual
Machine
Docker container
-
not be a feature of IOTA core [123]. However, there are some
projects such as Qubic protocol [124] which aim to design a
contract layer on top of IOTA Tangle in order to deploy smart
contracts and other applications on it.
V. RELATED WORK
All published surveys on blockchain technology can be
categorized as surveys on individual aspects or on blockchain
as a whole. For the former survey type, [69], [125], [126], and
[127] concentrate specifically on the consensus mechanisms of
blockchain. In [128], [129], [130], and [131], the focus is on
the security analysis. Smart contracts are covered in depth in
[132] and [133]. Data management and analysis of blockchain
data are investigated in [134] and [135]. Network layer aspects
of permissionless blockchains are addressed in [136]. Surveys
of [137], [138], [139], [140], and [141] review integration of
blockchain with other technology, namely with edge comput-
ing, machine learning, cloud storage, cloud computing, and
cloud of things respectively. The works of [142], [143], [144],
and [145] survey on applying blockchain to various application
domains such as IoT, healthcare, and smart cities.
In contrast, blockchain surveys of the second type provide
a general exposition of blockchain systems. However, the
coverage significantly varies across specific surveys. As our
paper falls in this category of blockchain surveys, we explore
the related surveys of this type in greater detail and compare
them with our work in the rest of this section (see Table VIII).
The study of [19] has been one of the first surveys
on blockchains as a whole. However, it is limited to the
cryptocurrency use case of blockchain. This work reviews
research perspectives and challenges for Bitcoin and other
cryptocurrencies. It focuses on Bitcoin and presents trans-
actions (including scripts), the consensus protocol, and the
communication network as the main technical components.
Incentivizing correct behavior in Bitcoin, transition towards
more powerful and energy-efficient customized hardware, and
security issues of cryptocurrencies are the other important
aspects covered in [19]. Another technical survey on Bitcoin
and cryptocurrencies [20] is similar to [19] in terms of the
goals. Additionally, it includes a tutorial-style introductory part
and an in-depth overview of more recent existing literature.
The authors of [146] compare Bitcoin with Ethereum and
propose a design taxonomy based on this comparison. Discus-
sion of the architectural design in [146] is structured by topics
of decentralization, computation, infrastructural configuration,
among others. Based on this discussion, the work evaluates
consensus protocols and system performance. Bitcoin scripts
and Ethereum smart contracts are also compared as another
principal aspect of blockchain in this paper. Similar to [146],
[147] is another survey using Ethereum and Bitcoin as a
case study to describe the inner workings of blockchain
in detail. The survey covers blockchain incentive structures,
smart contracts, and scalability issues such as transaction
throughput and latency. The study of [148] provides yet
another comparison of Bitcoin with Ethereum which considers
a number of additional aspects: UTXO and account model
for tracking the states, different hardware used for mining in
Bitcoin and Ethereum, and the differences in the network layer.
Similarly to [146] and [147], consensus protocol and scripting
language of Bitcoin and Ethereum are also reviewed in [148].
As another work that compares Bitcoin and Ethereum, [154]
introduces a quantitative framework to analyze the security and
performance implications of various consensus and network
parameters of PoW blockchains. Impact analysis of parameter
choices such as block interval, stale block rate, and average
block size on the network propagation time and the throughput
of PoW blockchain systems is one of the main contributions
in [154].
Lack of formalization and standardization in blockchain
technology has prompted a research on ontologies that aim at
providing a vocabulary of key blockchain terms. A high-level
ontology for concepts and definitions without technical details
is proposed in [149]. A more technical ontology is introduced
in [150]. Furthermore, this work provides an overview of
a number of blockchain components with the main focus
on Bitcoin and Ethereum, namely of consensus, transaction
model, scalability limits, scripting language, and the reward
incentives. These ontologies, however, do not survey alterna-
tive term definitions in this turbulent area and do not aim to
analyze the differences.
In contrast to the other related works that concentrate on
Bitcoin as a basis for analyzing blockchain design, [151]
focuses on aspects unrelated to cryptocurrency. This paper
compares Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, and Corda in terms
of participation of peers, consensus, and smart contracts to
show the most suitable use cases for each blockchain system.
The only other related survey that is not based on Bitcoin
is [21] which provides a comprehensive analysis of DAG-


【第30页】
Table VIII
COMPARISON WITH STATE OF THE ART SURVEYS ON BLOCKCHAINS AS A WHOLE
Main analayzed aspects of
blockchains
Our
work
[19]
[20]
[146]
[147]
[148]
[149]
[150]
[151]
[21]
[152]
[153]
[17]
[18]
1
Comparison of alternative
definitions
✓1
✗2
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
2
Roles and entities
U3
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
S4
U
3
Hardware layer
B5,E6,
H7,I8
B,etc.
B,etc.
✗
✗
B,E,
etc.
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
B9,E10
4
Data storage
layer
State tracking
B,E,
H,I
B
B
✗
✗
B,E,
etc.
✗
✗
✗
I11,etc.
✗
✗
B,E,
etc.
B,E,
H,etc.
Disk
B,E,
H,I
✗
B
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
H12
Memory
B,E,
H,I
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
5
Communication layer
B,E,
H,I
B
B
✗
✗
B,E,
etc.
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
B,E,
etc.
B,E,
H,etc.
6
Data
manipulation
layer
Consensus
algorithm
B,E,
H,I
B
B,etc.
B,E,
etc.
B,E,
etc.
B,E,
etc.
✗
B,E,
etc.
E,H,
etc. .
I,etc.
✗
B,E,H,
I,etc.
B,E,
etc.
B,E,
H,etc.
Quantitative
performance
comparison
B,E,
H,I
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
E,H,
etc.
✗
✗
✗
DoS prevention
B,E,
H,I
B,etc.
B,etc.
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
E,H
✗
B,E
Querying
B,E,
H,I
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
7
Contract layer
B,E,
H,I
B
B,etc.
B,E
E,H,
etc.
B,E
✗
B,E
E,H,
etc.
✗
B,E,H,
I,etc.
B,E,
etc.
✗
B,E,
H,etc.
1✓: Considered, 2✗: Not considered, 3U: Universal, 4S: System specific, 5B: Bitcoin, 6E: Ethereum, 7H: Fabric, 8I: IOTA, 9B: Briefly mentioned in Bitcoin,
10E: Briefly mentioned in Ethereum, 11I: Briefly mentioned in IOTA, 12H: Briefly mentioned in Fabric
based blockchain systems. In this recent survey, consensus
over DAGs, performance analysis, and transaction models are
considered based on over 20 DAG-based systems including
IOTA.
The work of [152] proposes a benchmark framework for
evaluating the performance of a variety of blockchain net-
works, both public and private. The authors apply the frame-
work to Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, and another private
blockchain system and provide both qualitative and quantita-
tive performance analysis. Additionally, the authors focus on
smart contracts and provide a short survey of other blockchain-
related mechanisms without specifically focusing on individual
systems.
The comprehensive survey of [153] identifies a list of 40
DLT characteristics that are fundamental for assessing the
suitability of DLT designs for applications on DLT. These
characteristics are grouped into 6 categories. Then, based on
the introduced characteristics, [153] proposes 24 trade-offs in
the DLT design. Performance is one of the categories analyzed
in this survey. As a consequence, performance characteristics
such as block creation interval, block size limit, throughput,
etc. are explored for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric,
IOTA, and other blockchains. According to the classification
of [153], smart contracts are one of the characteristics men-
tioned for the flexibility category; thus, they are discussed in
the context of a trade-off with the other DLT characteristics in
the survey. In addition to the characteristics explored in [153],
consensus mechanisms of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Hyperledger
Fabric, and IOTA are briefly introduced, and DoS prevention
solutions of Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric are explained.
Data models, network discovery process, and consensus
process across four blockchain platforms including Bitcoin
and Ethereum are compared in [17]. This work also briefly
considers actors and roles in each of the systems. The excel-
lent recent tutorial of [18] touches upon a large number of
aspects and state-of-the-art mechanisms related to blockchain,
including roles, entities, data model, communication protocols,
consensus mechanisms, smart contracts, and much more. The
tutorial mentions the implementation of as many as seven
systems, including Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Hyperledger. The
main goal of [18] is to provide a very broad picture of the
state-of-the-art and answer a number of important high-level
questions, while we provide in-depth design comparison of the
four systems.
In Table VIII, we explain how our survey differs from
the aforementioned studies. The rows of the table correspond
to seven major aspects of blockchain: (1) comparison of
alternative definitions, (2) taxonomy of roles and entities,
(3) coverage of the hardware layer, (4) coverage of the data
storage layer including state tracking, on-disk, and in-memory
storage, (5) coverage of the communication layer, (6) coverage
of the data manipulation layer at fine granularity including
consensus algorithm, quantitative performance comparison,
DoS prevention, and blockchain querying, and (7) coverage of
the contract layer. The coverage of aspects 3 to 7 is shown in
the table at the granularity of individual systems we consider
in our survey.
The
first
aspect,
i.e,
the
comparison
of
alternative
blockchain definitions, has not been considered in the state-
of-the-art surveys and is one of the contributions of our work.
In Section II-A we identify five blockchain definitions used
in the literature and existing blockchain-based systems. The


【第31页】
second aspect is a comprehensive taxonomy of roles and
entities. While there are works that consider roles and entities
in specific systems, the only prior cross-system taxonomy is
given in [18] to the best of our knowledge. We extend this
taxonomy to additional roles and present the implementation
of each system in the light of this taxonomy. Our analysis
of roles and entities, given in Section II-C, is universal and
applicable to all blockchain systems.
The third aspect for comparison is coverage of the hardware
layer. While a few related works discuss the mining devices
of Bitcoin or Ethereum, we compare all four systems in terms
of the limiting resources, cryptopuzzle solving device, etc. We
also consider how additional hardware is used for security.
Fourth, we provide a comprehensive coverage of the data
storage layer in Section IV-B including state tracking, on-disk
and in-memory storage. While other surveys have considered
the storage in Bitcoin, in-depth understanding of the storage
in Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, and IOTA requires reading
system documentation, blog posts, and even the source code.
To the best of our knowledge, we provide the first in-depth
survey coverage for these systems.
The fifth aspect is coverage of the communication layer.
While the basic communication protocol in Bitcion is ex-
plained in a few related works, our description in Section IV-C
considers ordering guarantees, privacy and security, propaga-
tion time, initial peer discovery, and geographical proximity
between network participants in Bitcoin, Ethereum, Hyper-
ledger Fabric, and IOTA.
The sixth aspect of consideration is coverage of the data ma-
nipulation layer. This is possibly the most substantial layer of
blockchain; it is touched upon by almost all the related works
but the breadth and depth of coverage varies. Consideration
of the consensus algorithm has received a lot of attention in
each of the systems, yet cross-system comparisons are rare
beyond the general comparison between permissioned and
permissionless systems. For example, our survey is the first
to provide a comprehensive comparison between consensus
in Bitcoin and Ethereum and to contrast the consensus in
IOTA with other systems not based on DAG. In particular,
we provide the most complete presentation of the consensus
protocol in IOTA that covers incentive-based attacks. Some of
the elements pertaining to the data manipulation layer, such as
DoS prevention and querying blockchain are covered in much
greater detail in our survey compared to related work. When
it comes to performance comparison, we contrast quantitative
and qualitative findings about each individual system produced
by the developers and researchers and attempt to place them
in a unifying framework.
Regarding the seventh aspect, i.e., coverage of the contract
layer, state-of-the-art mostly considers the scripting language
of Bitcoin and smart contract languages of Ethereum. In
comparison, we compare different systems by the contract
executing computing devices, programming vs. execution lan-
guage, and contract execution environment.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
We
have
presented
a
comparative
study
of
Bitcoin,
Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, and IOTA. The study is or-
ganized by roles of the participants, system entities, as well
as system layers in a cross-system blockchain architecture:
hardware, storage, communication, data manipulation, and
contract. We have also discussed the performance of the four
systems based on the previously published information. The
study has emphasized the differences in the design goals and
principles between the systems. We hope that the study can
be used as educational material in courses and tutorials. It
is our conjecture that this first cross-system comparison will
facilitate similar studies in the future, and that such studies
will collectively contribute toward standardization of the area.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We are thankful to many researchers who proofread an
earlier version of this survey and provided insightful com-
ments. A complete list of acknowledgements will be provided
in subsequent versions.
REFERENCES
[1] Coindesk,
“State
of
blockchain-
q4
2017
enter-
prise
blockchain
summary,”
2018.
[Online].
Avail-
able: https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/guizishanren/pdf/Coindesk-
201712-State-of-Blockchain-2018.pdf
[2] A. Rana, “Is blockchain the solution for healthcare? - dataconomy,”
Mar
2017.
[Online].
Available:
https://dataconomy.com/2017/03/
blockchain-solution-healthcare/
[3] F. Hasse, A. von Perfall, T. Hillebrand, E. Smole, L. Lay, and
M. Charlet, “Blockchain–an opportunity for energy producers and
consumers,” PwC global power & utilities, pp. 1–45, 2016.
[4] P. Windley and D. Reed, “Sovrin: A protocol and token for self-
sovereign identity and decentralized trust,” Jan 2018.
[5] M.
M.
Lab,
“What
we
learned
from
designing
an
academic
certificates system on the blockchain,” Jun 2016. [Online]. Available:
https://medium.com/mit-media-lab/what-we-learned-from-designing-
an-academic-certificates-system-on-the-blockchain-34ba5874f196
[6] CoreLedger,
“Land
registry
on
blockchain,”
Jan
2020.
[Online]. Available: https://medium.com/coreledger/land-registry-on-
blockchain-a0da4dd25ea6
[7] “Blockchain
for
supply
chain
-
ibm
blockchain
2021,”
Jul
2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.ibm.com/blockchain/industries/
supply-chain
[8] M. Gray, “Ethereum blockchain as a service now on azure,” Nov 2015.
[Online]. Available: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/ethereum-
blockchain-as-a-service-now-on-azure/
[9] P.
Rizzo,
“Ibm
goes
big
on
blockchain
unveil-
ing
services
suite
and
strategy,”
Feb
2016.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.coindesk.com/ibm-goes-big-on-blockchain-
unveiling-ambitious-new-service-offerings-and-strategy
[10] “The diem association,” https://www.diem.com/en-us/, last accessed on
Jul 2023.
[11] R. Wattenhofer, The science of the blockchain.
Inverted Forest
Publishing, 2016.
[12] M. Huillet, “Dutch ministry develops national blockchain research
agenda,” May 2018. [Online]. Available: https://cointelegraph.com/
news/dutch-ministry-develops-national-blockchain-research-agenda
[13] “Blockchain
partnership
—
shaping
europe’s
digital
future,”
https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/blockchain-partnership,
last accessed on Jul 2023.
[14] “European blockchain services infrastructure (ebsi),” https://ec.europa.
eu/digital-building-blocks/wikis/display/EBSI/Home, last accessed on
Jul 2023.


【第32页】
[15] P. Zhou, Y. Du, B. Li et al., “China blockchain technology and
application development white paper,” in Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China, ed. China
Blockchain Technology and Application, 2016.
[16] M.
Stone,
“The
tiny
european
country
that
became
a
global
leader
in
digital
government,”
Jun
2016.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.forbes.com/sites/delltechnologies/2016/06/14/the-tiny-
european-country-that-became-a-global-leader-in-digital-government/
[17] A. Ellervee, R. Matulevicius, and N. Mayer, “A comprehensive refer-
ence model for blockchain-based distributed ledger technology.” in ER
Forum/Demos, 2017, pp. 306–319.
[18] M. Belotti, N. Boˇzi´c, G. Pujolle, and S. Secci, “A vademecum on
blockchain technologies: When, which, and how,” IEEE Communica-
tions Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 3796–3838, 2019.
[19] J. Bonneau, A. Miller, J. Clark, A. Narayanan, J. A. Kroll, and E. W.
Felten, “Sok: Research perspectives and challenges for bitcoin and
cryptocurrencies,” in 2015 IEEE symposium on security and privacy.
IEEE, 2015, pp. 104–121.
[20] F. Tschorsch and B. Scheuermann, “Bitcoin and beyond: A technical
survey on decentralized digital currencies,” IEEE Communications
Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 2084–2123, 2016.
[21] Q. Wang, J. Yu, S. Chen, and Y. Xiang, “Sok: Diving into dag-based
blockchain systems,” 2020.
[22] A. Narayanan, J. Bonneau, E. Felten, A. Miller, and S. Goldfeder, Bit-
coin and cryptocurrency technologies: a comprehensive introduction.
Princeton University Press, 2016.
[23] R.
Browne,
“A
little-known
digital
currency
surges
90%
after
teaming
up
with
firms
like
microsoft,”
Dec
2017.
[Online]. Available: https://www.cnbc.com/2017/12/04/cryptocurrency-
iota-rallies-after-launch-of-data-marketplace.html
[24] B. McElrath, “Braiding the blockchain,” Presentation at Scaling
Bitcoin
Hong
Kong
(7
December
2015).
https://scalingbitcoin.
org/hongkong2015/presentations/DAY2/2 breaking the chain 1 -
mcelrath. pdf, 2015.
[25] M. Hearn and R. G. Brown, “Corda: A distributed ledger,” Corda
Technical White Paper (2019).
[26] Chainlink, “Smart contract platforms,” Mar 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://blog.chain.link/smart-contract-platforms/
[27] “The
reality
of
blockchain,”
2019.
[Online].
Available:
https:
//www.gartner.com/smarterwithgartner/the-reality-of-blockchain
[28] D. Canellis, “Bitcoin has nearly 100,000 nodes, but over 50% run
vulnerable code,” 2019. [Online]. Available: https://thenextweb.com/
news/bitcoin-100000-nodes-vulnerable-cryptocurrency
[29] S. Delgado-Segura, C. P´erez-Sol`a, J. Herrera-Joancomart´ı, G. Navarro-
Arribas, and J. Borrell, “Cryptocurrency networks: A new p2p
paradigm,” Mobile Information Systems, pp. 1–16, 2018.
[30] M. Vukoli´c, “The quest for scalable blockchain fabric: Proof-of-work
vs. bft replication,” in Open Problems in Network Security.
Springer
International Publishing, 2016, pp. 112–125.
[31] S. Popov, “The tangle,” 2018.
[32] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,
http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf,” 2008.
[33] (2020)
Endorsement
policies.
[Online].
Available:
https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.0/developapps/
endorsementpolicies.html
[34] “Ethash,” Aug 2018. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ethereum/
wiki/wiki/Ethash
[35] (2013, Jan) Why a gpu mines faster than a cpu. [Online]. Available:
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Why a GPU mines faster than a CPU
[36] M. Alshaikhli, T. Elfouly, O. Elharrouss, A. Mohamed, and N. Ot-
takath, “Evolution of internet of things from blockchain to iota: A
survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 844–866, 2021.
[37] “Jinn,” https://iotanodes.org/jinn/, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[38] (2018, Aug) Proof of scarcity and sybil attacks. [Online]. Available:
https://helloiota.com/proof-of-scarcity-and-sybil-attacks/
[39] J. Lind, O. Naor, I. Eyal, F. Kelbert, E. G. Sirer, and P. Pietzuch,
“Teechain: a secure payment network with asynchronous blockchain
access,” in Proceedings of the 27th ACM Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, 2019, pp. 63–79.
[40] F. McKeen, I. Alexandrovich, A. Berenzon, C. V. Rozas, H. Shafi,
V. Shanbhogue, and U. R. Savagaonkar, “Innovative instructions and
software model for isolated execution.” vol. 10, 2013.
[41] E. Androulaki, A. Barger, V. Bortnikov et al., “Hyperledger fabric:
a distributed operating system for permissioned blockchains,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 13th EuroSys conference, 2018, pp. 1–15.
[42] “Iota reference implementation,” Aug 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/iotaledger/iri
[43] “Transaction - bitcoin wiki,” https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Transaction, last
accessed on Jul 2023.
[44] Python Implementation of the Ethereum protocol 2023. ethereum, Jun
2023. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ethereum/py-evm/blob/
1af151ab218b905f4fdf7a285cbe14ebf094a7c4/eth/rlp/transactions.py
[45] H. Mayer, “Ecdsa security in bitcoin and ethereum: a research survey,”
CoinFaabrik, June, vol. 28, no. 126, p. 50, 2016.
[46] “Hyperledger
fabric
block
file
manager,”
https://github.com/
hyperledger/fabric/blob/main/common/ledger/blkstorage/blockfile
mgr.go, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[47] “Bitcoin core 0.11 (ch 2): Data storage - bitcoin wiki,” Jun 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin Core 0.11 (ch
2): Data Storage
[48] “Github fabric storage source code,” https://github.com/hyperledger/
fabric/blob/86f87ebcd8a1819e3832b289f2d94d4a88bb6e05/common/
ledger/blkstorage/fsblkstorage/blockindex.go,
last
accessed
on
Jul
2023.
[49] S. Delgado-Segura, C. P´erez-Sola, G. Navarro-Arribas, and J. Herrera-
Joancomart´ı, “Analysis of the bitcoin utxo set,” in International Con-
ference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 2018,
pp. 78–91.
[50] “Couchdb as the state database – hyperledger-fabricdocs master
documentation,” https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.
0/couchdb as state database.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[51] B.
Prahalad,
“Merkle
proofs
explained.”
Dec
2018.
[Online].
Available: https://medium.com/crypto-0-nite/merkle-proofs-explained-
6dd429623dc5
[52] V. Buterin. (2015, Jun) State tree pruning. [Online]. Available:
https://ethereum.github.io/blog/2015/06/26/state-tree-pruning/
[53] jamesob, “Coins: allow flush() without cache drop,” Jan 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://bitcoincore.reviews/17487
[54] “What’s new in Hyperledger Fabric v2.x – hyperledger-fabricdocs
master
documentation,”
https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/
release-2.2/whatsnew.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[55] “Tangle-accelerator,” Jul 2021. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/
DLTcollab/tangle-accelerator
[56] R.
Rottmann.
(2019,
May)
Iota
snapshot.
[Online].
Available:
https://iota-news.com/iota-snapshot/
[57] A. Gervais, S. Capkun, G. O. Karame, and D. Gruber, “On the
privacy provisions of bloom filters in lightweight bitcoin clients,”
in Proceedings of the 30th Annual Computer Security Applications
Conference, 2014, pp. 326–335.
[58] “Bitcoin wiki,” https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Protocol documentation, last
accessed on Jul 2023.
[59] C. Decker and R. Wattenhofer, “Information propagation in the bitcoin
network,” in IEEE P2P Proceedings, 2013, pp. 1–10.
[60] T. Wang, C. Zhao, Q. Yang, S. Zhang, and S. C. Liew, “Ethna: An-
alyzing the underlying peer-to-peer network of ethereum blockchain,”
IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, vol. 8, no. 3,
pp. 2131–2146, 2021.
[61] P. Silva, D. Vavricka, J. Barreto, and M. Matos, “Impact of geo-
distribution and mining pools on blockchains: A study of ethereum,” in
2020 50th Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable
Systems and Networks (DSN).
IEEE, 2020, pp. 245–252.
[62] “Gossip data dissemination protocol – hyperledger-fabricdocs master
documentation,” https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.
0/gossip.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[63] “The ordering service – hyperledger-fabricdocs master documenta-
tion,”
https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.0/orderer/
ordering service.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[64] “Architecture
explained
–
hyperledger-fabricdocs
master
documentation,”
https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-
1.3/arch-deep-dive.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[65] A. E. Gencer, S. Basu, I. Eyal, R. van Renesse, and E. G. Sirer,
“Decentralization in bitcoin and ethereum networks,” in International
Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, 2018, pp.
439–457.
[66] “Whisper - ethereum wiki,” https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/
Whisper, last accessed on Jul 2023.


【第33页】
[67] P. Syverson, R. Dingledine, and N. Mathewson, “Tor: The second
generation onion router,” in Usenix Security, 2004.
[68] I.
Latino,
“Mam
protocol:
Alternative
messaging
thanks
to
the
iota
platform,”
Nov
2018.
[Online].
Avail-
able: https://medium.com/iotalatinoamerica/mam-protocol-alternative-
messaging-thanks-to-the-iota-platform-f92a5ef92ebe
[69] C. Cachin and M. Vukoli´c, “Blockchain consensus protocols in the
wild,” 2017.
[70] Bitcoin cash. https://www.bitcoincash.org/, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[71] E. Lombrozo, J. Lau, and P. Wuille. (2015) Segregated witness
(consensus layer). [Online]. Available: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/
blob/master/bip-0141.mediawiki
[72] Orphan block. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Orphan Block, last accessed on
Jul 2023.
[73] Y. Kawase and S. Kasahara, “Priority queueing analysis of transaction-
confirmation time for bitcoin,” Journal of Industrial & Management
Optimization, vol. 16, no. 3, p. 1077, 2020.
[74] Y. Sompolinsky and A. Zohar, “Secure high-rate transaction processing
in bitcoin,” in International Conference on Financial Cryptography and
Data Security.
Springer, 2015, pp. 507–527.
[75] I. Eyal, A. E. Gencer, E. G. Sirer, and R. van Renesse, “Bitcoin-ng:
A scalable blockchain protocol,” in 13th {USENIX} symposium on
networked systems design and implementation ({NSDI} 16), 2016, pp.
45–59.
[76] V. Bagaria, S. Kannan, D. Tse, G. Fanti, and P. Viswanath, “Prism:
Deconstructing the blockchain to approach physical limits,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on CCS, 2019, pp.
585–602.
[77] I. Eyal and E. G. Sirer, “Majority is not enough: Bitcoin mining is
vulnerable,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 61, no. 7, pp. 95–102,
2018.
[78] C. S. Wright and S. Savanah, “The fallacy of the selfish miner
in bitcoin: An economic critique,” Jul 2017. [Online]. Available:
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract id=3009466
[79] Marlow,
“Why
Selfish
miners
do
not
exist
and
never
will,”
Apr 2018. [Online]. Available: https://medium.com/ProfFaustus/why-
selfish-miners-do-not-exist-and-never-will-6d68b5ad571c
[80] E.
Conner,
“Understanding
ethereum
gas,
blocks
and
the
fee
market,”
Sep
2019.
[Online].
Avail-
able:
https://medium.com/eric.conner/understanding-ethereum-gas-
blocks-and-the-fee-market-d5e268bf0a0e
[81] “Ethereum block size chart,” https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/
ethereum-size.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[82] V.
Buterin,
“Ethereum:
A
next-generation
smart
contract
and
decentralized application platform.” 2014. [Online]. Available: https:
//ethereum.org/en/whitepaper
[83] ——,
“Eip
100:
Change
difficulty
adjustment
to
target
mean
block
time
including
uncles.”
Apr
2016.
[Online].
Available:
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-100
[84] V. Gramoli, “From blockchain consensus back to byzantine consensus,”
Future Gen. Computer Systems (2017), 2017.
[85] I. Weber, V. Gramoli, A. Ponomarev, M. Staples, R. Holz, A. B. Tran,
and P. Rimba, “On availability for blockchain-based systems,” in 36th
Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems (SRDS).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
64–73.
[86] A. Hertig. (2018, Feb) How will ethereum scale? [Online]. Available:
https://www.coindesk.com/information/will-ethereum-scale
[87] K. Croman, C. Decker, I. Eyal, A. E. Gencer, A. Juels, A. Kosba,
A. Miller, P. Saxena, E. Shi, E. G. Sirer et al., “On scaling decentralized
blockchains,” in International Conference on Financial Cryptography
and Data Security, 2016, pp. 106–125.
[88] C. Gorenflo, S. Lee, L. Golab, and S. Keshav, “Fastfabric: Scaling
hyperledger fabric to 20,000 transactions per second,” in International
Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC).
IEEE, 2019,
pp. 455–463.
[89] D. Ongaro and J. Ousterhout, “In search of an understandable consen-
sus algorithm,” in 2014 USENIX ATC, 2014.
[90] M. Castro, B. Liskov et al., “Practical byzantine fault tolerance,” in
OSDI, vol. 99, no. 1999, 1999, pp. 173–186.
[91] N. Garg, Apache Kafka.
Packt Publishing Ltd, 2013.
[92] A. Bessani, J. Sousa, and E. E. Alchieri, “State machine replication
for the masses with bft-smart,” in 2014 44th Annual IEEE/IFIP Inter-
national Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks.
IEEE,
2014, pp. 355–362.
[93] G. G. Gueta, I. Abraham, S. Grossman, D. Malkhi, B. Pinkas, M. K.
Reiter, D. Seredinschi, O. Tamir, and A. Tomescu, “Sbft: a scal-
able decentralized trust infrastructure for blockchains,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1804.01626 (2018), 2018.
[94] R. van Renesse, N. Schiper, and F. B. Schneider, “Vive la diff´erence:
Paxos vs. viewstamped replication vs. zab,” IEEE Transactions on
Dependable and Secure Computing, vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 472–484, 2014.
[95] P. Thakkar, S. Nathan, and B. Viswanathan, “Performance bench-
marking and optimizing hyperledger fabric blockchain platform,” in
MASCOTS.
IEEE, 2018, pp. 264–276.
[96] C. Gorenflo, L. Golab, and S. Keshav, “XOX fabric: A hybrid approach
to blockchain transaction execution,” in International Conference on
Blockchain and Cryptocurrency, (ICBC).
IEEE, 2020, pp. 1–9.
[97] P.
Ryszkiewicz,
https://github.com/pRizz/iota-transaction-spammer-
webapp, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[98] G. De Roode, I. Ullah, and P. J. Havinga, “How to break iota heart by
replaying?” in 2018 IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps).
IEEE,
2018, pp. 1–7.
[99] A. Penzkofer, B. Kusmierz, A. Capossele, W. Sanders, and O. Saa,
“Parasite chain detection in the iota protocol,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2004.13409 (2020), 2020.
[100] B. Kusmierz and A. Gal, “Probability of being left behind and
probability of becoming permanent tip in the tangle v0. 2,” IOTA
Foundation (2018), 2018.
[101] G. Bu, ¨O. G¨urcan, and M. Potop-Butucaru, “G-iota: Fair and confi-
dence aware tangle,” in IEEE INFOCOM 2019-IEEE Conference on
Computer Communications Workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS). IEEE,
2019, pp. 644–649.
[102] “In tangle we trust - 10 amazing facts about iota,” Aug 2017,
https://steemit.com/iota/@steemhoops99/in-tangle-we-trust-10-
amazing-facts-about-iota-1000000-token-giveaway-faucet.
[103] “A primer on iota (with presentation),” May 2017. [Online]. Available:
http://blog.iota.org/a-primer-on-iota-with-presentation-e0a6eb2cc621
[104] I. F. Coordicide Team, “The coordicide,” May 2019.
[105] A. De Vries, “Bitcoin’s growing energy problem,” Joule, vol. 2, no. 5,
pp. 801–805, 2018.
[106] C. T. Nguyen, D. T. Hoang, D. N. Nguyen, D. Niyato, H. T. Nguyen,
and E. Dutkiewicz, “Proof-of-stake consensus mechanisms for future
blockchain networks: fundamentals, applications and opportunities,”
vol. 7.
IEEE, 2019.
[107] V. Buterin and V. Griffith, “Casper the friendly finality gadget,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1710.09437v4 (2019), 2019.
[108] V. Buterin, D. Reijsbergen, S. Leonardos, and G. Piliouras, “Incentives
in ethereum?s hybrid casper protocol,” in 2019 IEEE international
conference on blockchain and cryptocurrency (ICBC).
IEEE, 2019,
pp. 236–244.
[109] Y. Li, K. Zheng, Y. Yan, Q. Liu, and X. Zhou, “Etherql: a query
layer for blockchain system,” in International Conference on Database
Systems for Advanced Applications.
Springer, 2017, pp. 556–567.
[110] “Blockchain.com explorer,” https://www.blockchain.com/explorer, last
accessed on Jul 2023.
[111] “Ethereum (eth) blockchain explorer,” http://etherscan.io/, last accessed
on Jul 2023.
[112] “Bitcoin blockchain sql query,” http://blockchainsql.io/, last accessed
on Jul 2023.
[113] “Anyblock analytics gmbh,” https://github.com/anyblockanalytics, last
accessed on Jul 2023.
[114] “Iota tangle explorer,” https://explorer.iota.org/mainnet, last accessed
on Jul 2023.
[115] “Iota tangle explorer and statistics,” https://thetangle.org/, last accessed
on Jul 2023.
[116] L. Brodie and C. FORTH Inc, Starting Forth.
Prentice-Hall, Inc.,
1987.
[117] Y. Hirai, “Programming languages that compile into evm,” 2017.
[Online]. Available: https://eth.wiki/en/concepts/evm/ethereum-virtual-
machine-(evm)-awesome-list
[118] “Solidity
is
twice
as
popular
as
the
next
blockchain
coding
language,”
May
2019.
[Online].
Avail-
able:
https://media.consensys.net/solidity-is-twice-as-popular-as-the-
next-blockchain-coding-language-9330af9aeaa3
[119] Lll
introduction.
https://lll-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/lll
introduction.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[120] “Vyper documentation,” https://vyper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/, last ac-
cessed on Jul 2023.


【第34页】
[121] “Smart contracts and chaincode – hyperledger-fabricdocs master
documentation,” https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.
0/smartcontract/smartcontract.html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[122] “Chaincode tutorials – hyperledger-fabricdocs master documentation,”
https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-2.0/chaincode.
html, last accessed on Jul 2023.
[123] R.
Rottmann,
“About
smart
contracts
in
iota,”
Mar
2018.
[Online].
Available:
https://medium.com/ralf/about-smart-contracts-
in-iota-626d2bd3619e
[124] Iota qubic. https://iota-news.com/about-qubic/, last accessed on Jul
2023.
[125] C. Natoli, J. Yu, V. Gramoli, and P. Esteves-Verissimo, “Deconstructing
blockchains: A comprehensive survey on consensus, membership and
structure,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.08316 (2019), 2019.
[126] Y. Xiao, N. Zhang, W. Lou, and Y. T. Hou, “A survey of distributed
consensus protocols for blockchain networks,” IEEE Communications
Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1432–1465, 2020.
[127] S. Gupta, J. Hellings, and M. Sadoghi, “Fault-tolerant distributed
transactions on blockchain,” Synthesis Lectures on Data Management,
vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 1–268, 2021.
[128] R. Zhang, R. Xue, and L. Liu, “Security and privacy on blockchain,”
ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 1–34, 2019.
[129] T. Salman, M. Zolanvari, A. Erbad, R. Jain, and M. Samaka, “Security
services using blockchains: A state of the art survey,” IEEE Commu-
nications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 858–880, 2018.
[130] M. Saad, J. Spaulding, L. Njilla, C. Kamhoua, S. Shetty, D. Nyang,
and D. Mohaisen, “Exploring the attack surface of blockchain: A
comprehensive survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials,
vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1977–2008, 2020.
[131] I. Homoliak, S. Venugopalan, D. Reijsbergen, Q. Hum, R. Schumi, and
P. Szalachowski, “The security reference architecture for blockchains:
Toward a standardized model for studying vulnerabilities, threats, and
defenses,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 23, no. 1,
pp. 341–390, 2020.
[132] M. Bartoletti and L. Pompianu, “An empirical analysis of smart
contracts: platforms, applications, and design patterns,” in International
conference on financial cryptography and data security.
Springer,
2017, pp. 494–509.
[133]
´A. J. Varela-Vaca and A. M. R. Quintero, “Smart contract languages:
A multivocal mapping study,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 54, no. 1,
pp. 1–38, 2021.
[134] J. Eberhardt and S. Tai, “On or off the blockchain? insights on off-
chaining computation and data,” in European Conference on Service-
Oriented and Cloud Computing.
Springer, 2017, pp. 3–15.
[135] H. T. Vo, A. Kundu, and M. K. Mohania, “Research directions in
blockchain data management and analytics,” in EDBT, 2018, pp. 445–
448.
[136] T. Neudecker and H. Hartenstein, “Network layer aspects of per-
missionless blockchains,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials,
vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 838–857, 2018.
[137] R. Yang, F. R. Yu, P. Si, Z. Yang, and Y. Zhang, “Integrated blockchain
and edge computing systems: A survey, some research issues and
challenges,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 2,
pp. 1508–1532, 2019.
[138] Y. Liu, F. R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. Leung, “Blockchain and
machine learning for communications and networking systems,” IEEE
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1392–1431,
2020.
[139] P. Sharma, R. Jindal, and M. D. Borah, “Blockchain technology
for cloud storage: A systematic literature review,” ACM Computing
Surveys, vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 1–32, 2020.
[140] K. Gai, J. Guo, L. Zhu, and S. Yu, “Blockchain meets cloud computing:
a survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 3,
pp. 2009–2030, 2020.
[141] D. C. Nguyen, P. N. Pathirana, M. Ding, and A. Seneviratne, “Inte-
gration of blockchain and cloud of things: Architecture, applications
and challenges,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 22,
no. 4, pp. 2521–2549, 2020.
[142] L. Lao, Z. Li, S. Hou, B. Xiao, S. Guo, and Y. Yang, “A survey of iot
applications in blockchain systems: Architecture, consensus, and traffic
modeling,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 1–32, 2020.
[143] M. S. Ali, M. Vecchio, M. Pincheira, K. Dolui, F. Antonelli, and M. H.
Rehmani, “Applications of blockchains in the internet of things: A
comprehensive survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials,
vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 1676–1717, 2018.
[144] E. J. De Aguiar, B. S. Faic¸al, B. Krishnamachari, and J. Ueyama, “A
survey of blockchain-based strategies for healthcare,” ACM Computing
Surveys, vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 1–27, 2020.
[145] J. Xie, H. Tang, T. Huang, F. R. Yu, R. Xie, J. Liu, and Y. Liu, “A survey
of blockchain technology applied to smart cities: Research issues and
challenges,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 3,
pp. 2794–2830, 2019.
[146] X. Xu, I. Weber, M. Staples, L. Zhu, J. Bosch, L. Bass, C. Pautasso,
and P. Rimba, “A taxonomy of blockchain-based systems for archi-
tecture design,” in 2017 IEEE International Conference on Software
Architecture (ICSA).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 243–252.
[147] J. Kolb, M. AbdelBaky, R. H. Katz, and D. E. Culler, “Core concepts,
challenges, and future directions in blockchain: a centralized tutorial,”
ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 1–39, 2020.
[148] F. Haffke, “Technical analysis of established blockchain systems,”
Master’s thesis, TU Munich, 2017.
[149] J. De Kruijff and H. Weigand, “Understanding the blockchain using
enterprise ontology,” in International Conference on Advanced Infor-
mation Systems Engineering.
Springer, 2017, pp. 29–43.
[150] P. Tasca, T. Thanabalasingham, and C. J. Tessone, “Ontology of
blockchain technologies. principles of identification and classification,”
2017.
[151] M. Valenta and P. Sandner, “Comparison of ethereum, hyperledger
fabric and corda,” Frankfurt School Blockchain Center (2017), vol. 8,
2017.
[152] T. T. A. Dinh, R. Liu, M. Zhang, G. Chen, B. C. Ooi, and J. Wang, “Un-
tangling blockchain: A data processing view of blockchain systems,”
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 30, no. 7,
pp. 1366–1385, 2018.
[153] N. Kannengießer, S. Lins, T. Dehling, and A. Sunyaev, “Trade-offs be-
tween distributed ledger technology characteristics,” ACM Computing
Surveys, vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 1–37, 2020.
[154] A. Gervais, G. O. Karame, K. W¨ust, V. Glykantzis, H. Ritzdorf,
and S. Capkun, “On the security and performance of proof of work
blockchains,” in Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
CCS, 2016, pp. 3–16.

