来源文件：5Agro-Food Supply Chain Traceability using Blockchain and IPFS.pdf
============================================================

【第1页】
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, 2023 
393 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
Agro-Food Supply Chain Traceability using 
Blockchain and IPFS 
Subashini Babu, Hemavathi Devarajan 
Department of Data Science and Business Systems-School of Computing, SRM Institute of Science and Technology 
Chengalpattu, Kattankulathur, Tamilnadu 603 203, India 
 
 
Abstract—Many blockchain initiatives significantly use the 
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) to store user data off-chain. 
The centralized administration, ambiguous data, unreliable data, 
and ease of creating information islands are all issues with 
traditional traceability systems. This study develops a monitoring 
system using blockchain technology to record and inquire about 
product information in the supply network of Non-Perishable 
(NP) agro goods to address the above issues. The transparency 
and trustworthiness of traceability data were considerably 
improved by employing blockchain technology's distributed, 
tamper-proof, and traceable properties. To alleviate the strain on 
the blockchain and enable efficient information inquiry, a 
storage structure is built in which both public and private data 
are stored in the blockchain and the Inter Planetary File System 
(IPFS) using cryptography. Because of its ability to trace the 
origin of food, blockchain technology contributes to the 
development of reliable food supply chains and the establishment 
of rapport between farmers and their customers. Since it 
provides a secure location for data to be kept, it can pave the way 
for implementing data-driven farming techniques. In addition to 
improving data security, recording farm data in IPFS and 
storing encrypted file IPFS hashes in smart contracts solves the 
issue of blockchain storage explosion. And when used in tandem 
with smart contracts, it enables instantaneous outflows between 
parties in response to changes in data stored in the blockchain. 
The paper also offers simulations of the implementation and 
analysis of the performance. The findings validate that our 
system improves security for sensitive information, safeguards 
supply chain data, and meets the needs of real-world 
applications. Furthermore, it boosts throughput efficiency while 
reducing latency. 
Keywords—Blockchain; IPFS; supply chain management; 
traceability; Ethereum 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
Everyone is concerned about the nutritional value of the 
meal they are about to consume. The food supply chain is 
prevalent, with tedious processes prone to human errors [1]. A 
blockchain-based supply chain can offer visibility into the 
movement of commodities by making all transaction records 
accessible to all network nodes. End-to-end traceability is 
another feature of the blockchain-enabled food supply chain 
technology that is helpful in the case of a food investigation or 
recall. Supply chain management combines actions to 
transform raw materials into completed goods, increasing 
customer value and achieving a long-term competitive 
advantage. The supply chain generally encompasses people, 
things, initiatives, and organizations involved in transforming 
raw materials into finished goods, mainly and secondary to 
fulfilling customer orders. Although the government has 
developed national traceability requirements for significant 
products, fake and subpar interests are still common in the 
marketplace. Thus, several issues with food security have led 
to a crisis in consumer confidence, which is also a significant 
obstacle to national efforts to build a trustworthy society [2]. 
NP agro-food monitoring program can determine food 
origin and provide detailed information about food production 
and distribution. The farm-to-table process includes the 
production, processing, transportation, and sale of agricultural 
products. Any fraud in any of the connections above can result 
in potentially fatal threats to food safety. Therefore, various 
management solutions have arisen with IoT, automation, and 
different learnings. These systems can trace the complete 
procedure autonomously, but they must solve the problem of 
altered data and food poisoning. The reason for this is that in 
the conventional data storage procedure, there is always the 
risk of data being tampered with or lost. Researchers have 
been experimenting with blockchain technology to store data 
and protect data security by addressing the issues above [3]. It 
develops a blockchain-based system for storing agricultural 
product provenance data. Due to their linkage to IoT devices, 
agricultural items will automatically transmit whatever data 
they collect to a network. 
Once again, the server will dynamically record the 
information onto the blockchain following data processing. In 
this instance, provenance data secure storage is implemented 
using blockchain technology. As a result, it successfully 
ensures the authenticity of provenance data. A lot of real-time 
monitoring data would be produced when many agro items 
joined the provenance monitoring platform. Blockchain was 
initially 
developed 
for 
transactions 
involving 
digital 
currencies; the volume of data generated is far less than that of 
real-time monitoring data. This makes it extremely difficult 
for the rate of block construction to stay consistent with 
storing traceability information. Thus, more than a direct 
application of blockchain technology is needed. We merge the 
IPFS and blockchain to offer a data storage and query method 
for a traceability solution for farm products. IPFS is a peer-to-
peer decentralized file system with the ambitious goal of 
connecting all devices that use computers to a single, universal 
file system. It first suggests a data storage model based on 
blockchain and IPFS [4]. The submitted video, picture, and 
sensor data are automatically encapsulated and parsed by this 
model. The above information is then sent to IPFS, and the 
blockchain is updated with the associated hash addresses. The 
blockchain transaction's hash values are then saved in the 


【第2页】
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, 2023 
394 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
database. By requesting the authenticity database hash address 
of an item in IPFS, customers can access the provenance data 
using the transaction content from the blockchain. 
The article is divided into the following sections: 
Section II provides a quick review of blockchain technology 
and terminology, stages, methods, and benefits of traceability. 
Section III also discusses previous initiatives to incorporate 
blockchain into provenance systems. Section IV describes a 
modeling approach that has been presented. Section V goes 
through the outcomes and performance. Section VI brings the 
paper to a conclusion. 
II. 
BLOCKCHAIN FOR TRACEABILITY 
Blockchain technology can offer improved tracking of 
agri-foods from the ranch to your dinner plate. Blockchain 
technology might greatly minimize the food safety concerns 
arising from deliberate deception, terrible organization, and 
being short of guidelines. [5] Blockchain technology will 
revolutionize how traceability is viewed by overcoming the 
challenges in Table I. 
TABLE I. 
CHALLENGES IN TRACEABILITY SYSTEM 
Challenges 
Security and privacy 
Credentials and Governing Compliance 
Lack of end-to-end visibility 
Interoperability 
Expiration and Counterfeit Products 
Stakeholders Trust management 
Conflict of interests 
Temperature-controlled Logistics 
A. Functioning of Blockchain 
The digital register is a "link" of unique "blocks" 
information. As new data is added to the network, a new block 
is created and linked to the chain. To maintain consistency, all 
nodes (computers) must update their versions of the 
blockchain ledger. One of the elements that make blockchain 
so highly secure is the process of adding new blocks [6]. This 
is due to the requirement that a participating node verifies and 
validate the validity of new data well before a new node can 
be recorded to the blockchain. About cryptocurrencies, this 
can mean proving that brand-new transactions within a block 
are legitimate and that no coins have been spent more than 
once. 
On the other hand, a single database or worksheet permits 
revisions to a single version without restriction. Once 
consensus is reached, the block is added to the ledger, and the 
underlying records are kept in the distributed ledger [7]. 
Blocks are safely joined together to form a secure digital chain 
that extends from the start of the log to the latest addition. 
Nodes are frequently given fresh amounts of the native 
currency of the blockchain in appreciation for their work 
confirming revisions to the linked data. 
B. Merkle Tree 
The Merkle binary hash tree of 1987[8] is an essential 
component of the Blockchain structure. Each node of the 
Merkle tree is called a leaf, a separate data item or record. A 
cryptographic hash function H (), is used for evaluating a leaf 
of X records which in turn has a 2X −1 inner node. A tree with 
X = 2y nodes has a complexity of y = log X. Also, a single 
unique root at height y = 0 is the source of the entire 
hierarchical tree. The claim that the root value Ŕ encapsulates 
the correctness of all the entries in the tree constitutes a 
statement made to the entirety of the tree. Conforming to each 
child n at height y’, Z forms a collection of y‟ systems on the 
whole hierarchy. 
      (   )  
 
(1) 
where, HFt is a succession of y’ hash function 
H(.)calculations. The entire Merkle hash tree is stored by an 
untrustworthy party to prove, whereas a verifier only stores 
the root Ŕ. The party attempting to verify the authenticity of 
node n provides Z for each node in the tree. Given, 
      (   )  
 
(2) 
Eq. (2) concludes that statement n∈Ŕ, where n is the 
existing root. Knowing the present Ŕ, a steady improvement 
state occurs from Ŕ towards R = Hft (m’, Zm) every time the 
current node m reorganized to m’. 
Hashing 
For a continuously increasing value, m=α0, α1, αn, a hash 
function h(.) is applied. This results from a declaration Ḡ 
called Gatherer Hash (GH) to the progression. The process to 
get nth hash gatherer Ḡn is given in eq. (3), 
      (   )      (       )         
    (           ) 
 
(3) 
Also, a cryptographic hash function's h () attribute assures 
that determining any sequence of numbers other than α0, α1... 
αn that yields the current GHβn is unfeasible. 
C. IPFS 
Despite multiple attempts to develop distributed file 
structures, IPFS has been the initial universal storage structure 
to achieve high throughput and autonomous delivery on a 
global scale and on the system level. Peer-to-peer (P2P) 
networks and blockchain technology allow secure information 
sharing without a central organization. InterPlanetary File 
System may replace HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol). 
IPFS is a persistent, open-source data storage system. It's used 
by many to exchange content efficiently. IPFS distributes files 
throughout the network and uses their cryptographic hashes to 
identify each item based on its content. IPFS stores file off-
chain while referencing blockchain hashes [9]. While IPFS 
incorporates useful concepts from earlier peer-to-peer 
systems, its primary contribution is in streamlining, 
advancing, and integrating tried-and-true methodologies into a 
single coherent system that is more effective than the sum of 
its parts [10]. The IPFS constructs an algorithmically 
authorized data model on top of these, a Merkle Directed 
Acyclic Graph (DAG) of permanent objects, to aid in 
effectively disseminating files and file version control. Git13 
is a popular system for managing file revisions and 
distribution. Content addressability, tamper resistance, and 


【第3页】
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, 2023 
395 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
deduplication are all provided by the core IPFS principles 
[11]. Additionally, the IPFS implements the InterPlanetary 
Linked Data (IPLD) standards to produce more adaptable, 
flexible, decentralized data structures that are globally 
addressable and linkable for many types of data. The 
Interplanetary Way back is a persistent Web archive that 
distributes data files into the IPFS network [12]. The CDXJ 
index is built, and then IPFS is used to disperse the response 
records' headers and payloads independently. The method has 
the potential to speed up indexing generally. 
III. 
RELATED STUDY 
To solve the problem of the blockchain's lack of 
significant data storage, Yang et al. [13] employed 
Hyperledger as the provenance link that processes the 
database. Its disadvantages over IPFS data storage include 
expensive costs, a slow rate of data movement, inadequate 
privacy, and so on. Additionally, it needs a feedback feature 
for the customer, preventing retailers from initially accessing 
the information on product security and other factors. Liao and 
Xu [14] developed a blockchain monitoring system utilizing 
intelligent farming and sensor networks to manage tea quality 
and safety. Using hazard characteristics; they also developed 
technologies for culinary threat assessment and safety tracing. 
Xie et al. [15]'s ETH-based traceability of agricultural items 
used IoT technology to protect data from unauthorized 
tampering or damage. However, information is saved utilizing 
blockchain technology at the file storage layer; as a result, 
network overheads will increase as data volumes do. 
Bumblauskas et al. [16] integrated IoT and blockchain to track 
products in real time. Using a Midwestern company's egg 
supply chain as an example, blockchain technology was 
implemented from farm to consumer. 
A 
provenance 
storage 
solution 
using 
blockchain 
technology would record food progress information in IPFS 
and analyze such data with the aid of an auxiliary database, 
claims a study by Hao et al. [17]. Yu and Huang [18] proposed 
the broiler chicken traceability method by fusing RFID and 
blockchain technology. The "inverted tooth" design of the 
chicken claw ring prevents it from being resold. The approach 
allows intelligent technologies to scan the ring's QR code and 
access the relevant details and data. Benet [8] advises using 
the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) to link all related 
devices using a single file system. Using a content-addressed 
strategy, IPFS is a peer-to-peer dispersed file system that 
provides high-throughput storage space. There are other 
attempts as well that aim to establish a global file system. The 
AFS system is installed by Howard et al. [19] and can enhance 
the capability of cache validation, server process structure, and 
other things. Additionally, several sizable media file-sharing 
platforms like Napster, KaZaA, and BitTorrent are developed 
to hold enormous amounts of data. 
IV. 
PROPOSED MODELLING 
A. Non-Perishable (NP) Agro-food Supply Chain Traceability 
System 
Poor server management and maintenance from distributed 
cloud storage providers or an extremely concentrated variety 
of cloud providers are the main causes of the present issues 
with cloud storage [20]. A backup file's hard disk position 
might match the original file's hard disk location if the cloud 
hard drives are centralized, even if both files are kept on the 
same cloud hard drive. As a result, in the event of a power 
failure or other issue, the servers malfunction and are 
unavailable from the outside; the only option is to wait for the 
servers to recover. Though it is unrestricted, IPFS is a more 
current Internet technology than the HTTP protocol. It is 
based on the idea that a file can be divided into numerous bits 
dispersed throughout the network and obtained from multiple 
servers consecutively using a P2P network (PPN). If some 
servers are unavailable, users from outside the network can 
still connect to the system and access data. Additionally, the 
network has many backups, even if some nodes' data is 
completely lost as a result of an error. Data loss, outdated 
infrastructure, and a lack of user feedback are just a few issues 
with the conventional centralized public cloud that can be 
addressed with IPFS's benefits. 
High standards for transaction data backup are necessary 
to ensure the traceability of the supply chains for agricultural 
products. Since it divides a file into several pieces and 
disperses them across the network, the IPFS storage system 
has a more reliable backup capability than cloud storage. The 
openness of the information kept in IPFS may be ensured by 
blockchain technology, which is excellent for the supply chain 
traceability of agricultural products. In this section, we have 
used the blockchain to track and execute the interactions in the 
NP agro supply chain products to decrease trust in the central 
database. We can do this with the help of smart contracts and 
IPFS transaction records. We can do this by leveraging smart 
contracts and documenting transactions in IPFS. 
B. System Model Overview 
Numerous parties, including producers, manufacturers, 
distributors, retailers, logistics, and customers, are involved in 
the NP agri-food supply chain model. The regulatory 
framework that governs the traceability system is responsible 
for distributing both the public and the private keys to each 
participant. 
It is possible to strengthen customers' confidence in the 
safety of NP agricultural products by providing consumers 
with complete information on agricultural products via a 
traceability system. This will allow for increased sales of NP 
agricultural products.In this article, the relationships between 
production, manufacture, distribution, retailing, logistics, and 
sales are disentangled to investigate agricultural goods' 
transparency. The NP agri-food is planted, transplanted, 
watered, fertilized, and harvested as part of the production 
link. Additionally, it requires recording essential data, 
including 
details 
on 
seedlings, 
planting 
techniques, 
environmental 
factors, 
and 
product 
transactions. 
NP 
commodities are categorized, weighed, packed, priced, and 
subjected to various operations in the manufacturing unit. It 
also includes keeping track of data on NP products, production 
processes, processing parameters, product transactions, and 
other essential facts. The distribution unit transports the full 
goods from one place to several others. When handling the 
delivery of items to the consumer, the shop takes great care. 
Transportation that is a part of IoT operations is used during 
production, manufacturing, distribution, and retail operations. 


【第4页】
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, 2023 
396 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
Law enforcement agencies can track down incidents 
involving how good and safe agricultural products are and 
identify the principal parties at fault. To certify the integrity 
and openness of provenance data in farm produce monitoring 
systems, 
traceability 
uses 
blockchain 
technology's 
decentralization, non-tampering, and tracking properties. The 
production, 
processing, 
transportation, 
and 
sales 
of 
agricultural products may all be monitored with the help of the 
blockchain-based NP agro products tracking system, which 
maintains growth data, processing data, logistics details, and 
sales data. Fig. 1 depicts the structural layout of the 
blockchain-based monitoring system for NP agro products. 
The regulator must approve the blockchain traceability 
scheme, including all parties. The approval follows 
registration. After registration is complete, the parties 
involved can transfer individual and NP product traceability 
data. If you want to check if the data on your chain of custody 
has been tampered with, you can use the provided a 
comparison tool to check for validity. Data analysis, a 
consensus mechanism, key management, smart contracts 
based on a user's reputation, and key authorization is all part 
of the system. The most fundamental applications of smart 
contracts are adding data to blockchains and the subsequent 
querying of that data. When a request is made, the smart 
contract immediately begins carrying it out. Businesses may 
input data in various links, customers can query traceability 
data, and regulators can keep tabs on it all through the 
system's platform, which is designed to accommodate a wide 
range of users. We store the data to IPFS in order to prevent 
blockchain data explosion. The IPFS hash value is kept in the 
blockchain once consensus has been reached. 
C. IPFS Encrypted Storage 
The blockchain traceability system's current storage option 
entails immediately writing the traceability data of each 
system of agricultural goods onto the blockchain. The burden 
on blockchain's storage grows as there are more nodes, 
resulting in more transaction data being collected [21]. Due to 
the blockchain‟s unique chain-type topology, users of a single 
blockchain community can view all the information on the 
blockchain even when query efficiency is extremely low. To 
address these issues, this article developed a solution 
integrating encrypted private data storage and hash storage for 
public data to enhance the storage style of a blockchain 
monitoring system for NP agro products. Traceability data for 
products is just one part of the supply chain's comprehensive 
dataset, including sensitive information authorized parties may 
only access. Data confidentiality is a significant concern for 
rival businesses. Public information may be about the 
producer, 
manufacturers, 
retailers, 
logistics 
and 
their 
reputation, product details, date of manufacture, price, and 
provenance. In this work, Algorithm 1 depicts the data entry to 
the blockchain in protecting traceable information, in which 
sensitive data is encrypted using a smart contract and then 
stored on the blockchain alongside the corresponding hash 
value of public data. 
Algorithm 1: Double Encryption 
Initialize Stakeholders ID, Public_data, Sensitive_info, Keys. 
Stakeholders ID → SID 
 If  
 Sensitive_info! = Null then do 
 Generate a Random key (KA) 
 Sensitive_info →Encry (GCM (Sensitive_info, KA)) 
 Encry_key→Encry(Key_Encryption_Method  
     (KA, PuK)) 
 (Sensitive_info + Public_data) → IPFS 
 Hash (Sensitive_info) + Hash (Public_data) → BC 
 End If 
 If  
 Sensitive_info == Null then 
 Hash (Public_data) → BC 
 End If 
 End 
 Result: The hash value stored in the blockchain. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Blockchain-oriented traceability mode. 


【第5页】
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, 2023 
397 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
 
Fig. 2. Storage of public and sensitive data. 
The AES encryption technique uses the Galois/Counter 
Mode (GCM) to encode sensitive data, „Senstive_Info‟. The 
necessary Key, „KA‟ is chosen at random by a random 
generator using the smart contract, which also creates as well 
as uploads encoded substitution cipher to the network. The 
Key is encrypted using the Key Encryption Method (ECC) to 
guarantee its security. The viewing node was approved by the 
encrypted Public Key, „PuK‟. Sensitive data as well as open 
data are transferred to IPFS. A pair of keys made up of the 
Encrypted Key and the Public Key of the Trusted Observing 
Nodes are kept in the current picture of the smart contract and 
sent to the ledger as IPFS hashes as shown in Fig. 2. The 
existing node's private key, „PiK„ is used to decipher the 
blockchain's encoded key in order to acquire the original Key, 
which is then used to decipher the sensitive data and sight it 
when the appropriate nodes access the private data. 
V. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
Ethereum is a blockchain open-source platform that is used 
for simulations. We create and test smart contracts using the 
Remix Integrated Development Environment (IDE), Ganache, 
Truffle, and Metamask. The smart contracts are used and 
tested on the Ethereum Ropsten test networks. The script was 
created using the Remix IDE and Solidity version 0.8.7. The 
system requirements include an x64-based processor, Win10 
Pro, a 64-bit operating system, an Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-
2630 v4 @ 2.20GHz, and IPFS version 0.8.0. Ganache does 
nevertheless distribute a certain amount of cryptocurrency to 
virtual accounts. After each transaction, the cryptocurrency is 
removed from the contract's designated account. In Ganache, 
every account has a unique address and private key. The 
truffle is the framework. Through the Metamask, a bridged 
browser plugin, Ganache, and the Remix IDE may 
communicate with one another. 
Through IPFS, the file is uploaded to the blockchain. It 
displays a ledger with a number of records. The key that 
represents each transaction is used to identify each record. The 
record is a file's many hashes. Each entry starts with a key, 
then a record that includes the multi-hash value of the file, the 
ID of the network node reading the file, and the time stamp. 
Due to the network's addition of IPFS hash addresses, access 
to files on blockchains using IPFS is constrained. This restricts 
access to the IPFS system and its associated hash addresses to 
legitimate users only. This lowers the number of handlers who 
have admittance to the files. Also, lessen illegal admittance to 
the file as well. Since user activity is not recorded on the IPFS 
network, users are free to view any files without fear of 
repercussions. This experiment places a barrier on unwanted 
access due to the immutable logging of user file access. 
A. Consensus 
The consensus mechanism assures blockchain nodes have 
the latest blocks. Popular ones include Proof of work, Proof of 
stake, Delegated Proof of Stake, and Practical Byzantine Fault 
Tolerance [22]. By facilitating competition between dispersed 
nodes in terms of computational power, POW increases data 
consistency and integrity, which is helpful in fending off Sybil 
attacks. The researchers created a POS approach that doesn't 
require processing resources and a DPOS mechanism to 
reduce power consumption. PBFT can reach a consensus with 
a few malicious nodes. Signatures, verification, and hashing 
prevent tampering, counterfeiting, and message repudiation 
and made BFT polynomial. PBFT's high consensus cost 
renders 
it unsuitable 
for 
public chains. Fewer-node 
consortiums or private chains operate better. The consortium 
chain is the core network, while PBFT is the consensus 
method. 
B. Performance and Evaluation 
Here, we measure how long it takes to verify a transaction 
by evaluating all the transaction data from the moment the 
validator first receives it until the transaction is authenticated. 
On the Ethereum Ropsten testbed, we assess the latency and 
throughput 
of 
our 
implementation. 
The 
approximate 
transaction validation time is given for all transaction types, 
including stakeholders. 
Key extraction in ECC encryption is as simple as 
producing a random integer between two specified values. 
Any positive integer within the range is valid as an ECC secret 
key. It is possible to minimize the time spent waiting by taking 
two different approaches when computing keys throughout 
decryption and encryption. ECC provides less delay than the 
alternative by processing keys in two stages. Since the ECC 
key is shorter, it consumes less computing capacity while still 
providing 
secure 
protocols 
for 
authorized 
mutual 
authentication. 
Some of these are reasonable despite the large additional 
operations required, such as validating signatures and hash 
data to and from IPFS, confirming permissions in the control 
list, and performing several other overheads. Transactions take 
the longest to complete since the qualifications of both the 
buyer and the vendor must be confirmed. The effectiveness of 
the blockchain network is examined in this section regarding 
various transaction rates. As a result, testing involved using 
transaction counts of 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, and 300 per 
second. By changing the number of transactions occurring, the 
impact of having numerous transactions active in a blockchain 
was examined. 
Standard operations and query transactions were both put 
to the test in every situation. The number of total transactions 
has been adjusted to facilitate the development of a more 
comprehensive understanding of how the amount of all 
transactions influences the throughput and latency of the 
blockchain. Each transaction on the blockchain has its 


【第6页】
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, 2023 
398 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
throughput and latency recorded and logged for future 
reference. This information is stored in a distributed ledger. 
Fig. 3 and 4 presents the calculations‟ results on the specifics 
of the delay and throughput measurements. 
 
Fig. 3. Transaction throughput of the traceability system. 
TABLE II. 
AVERAGE LATENCY AND THROUGHPUT OF THE TRACEABILITY 
SYSTEM 
 
Ethereum (Ropsten) 
Average Latency 
3927.32 MS 
Average Throughput 
52.21TPS 
 
Fig. 4. Transaction latency of the traceability system. 
Average delay and average throughput are determined 
from test results on the Ropsten test networks and are shown 
in Table II. Calculations are done for various transactions, 
including registration, the record of trace data, approvals, 
querying of recalls, etc. 
C. IPFS Read Write Latency 
While reading files over the network, IPFS reads them 
more quickly than it writes or adds them. A 0.256 MB file is 
typically received in around three seconds and written to a 
remote IPFS gateway in about five seconds. Because it caches 
the data locally after the initial transmission, IPFS is 
substantially faster when requesting the same file a second 
time. We also tested the performance of IPFS on its own to 
compare the outcomes of the combined systems. Files were 
sent between local workstations, and the server latency 
fluctuated. The impact of delays is more significant on smaller 
files than on bigger ones. The following is a performance 
analysis of scaling-out IPFS-attached storage. Table III 
displays their reading and writing results for different file 
sizes and latency. 
TABLE III. 
IPFS READ WRITE LATENCY 
Read Latency 
5MS 
10MS 
20MS 
25MS 
25MB 
0.395 
0.511 
0.755 
0.841 
100MB 
1.453 
1.505 
1.93 
1.82 
1GB 
13.26 
13.24 
14.14 
15.11 
 
Write Latency 
5MS 
10MS 
20MS 
25MS 
25MB 
0.443 
0.474 
0.741 
0.891 
100MB 
1.597 
1.694 
1.893 
1.99 
1GB 
14.10 
14.73 
15.32 
15.89 
D. Comparisons 
Our system has the following benefits: a better standard of 
decentralization; better network resilience; more integrity in 
data communication; and high reliability in data processing, 
according to the assessment of findings. The time-suggested 
technique enables more transactions to be added to the chain 
at the same rate, serving more users and enhancing overall 
scalability. We are evaluating our solution in comparison to 
several traceability systems. 
TABLE IV. 
COMPARATIVE RESULTS 
Features 
Conventional 
Traceability 
Blockchain 
Traceability 
Traceability 
Yes 
High 
Supervision 
Medium 
High 
Credibility 
Less 
High 
Storage Mode 
Medium 
Medium 
Data sharing Scope 
Medium 
High 
Scalability 
Less 
Medium 
Query Rate 
High 
Medium 
Table IV contains comparable outcomes. The performance 
of the decentralized and blockchain-based traceability systems 
is lower than that of the proposed method. All designs can 
track data. The proposed system cannot be altered in any way, 
making it superior to centralized systems and other 
approaches. Our method is decentralized, scalable, and 
protects users' privacy at the same time. This method reduces 
the amount of data generated compared to conventional 
blockchain technology. 
VI. 
CONCLUSIONS 
 In this study, we developed and assessed a system for 
tracking agricultural products using blockchain's tracing and 
anti-tampering features. We also examined the system's 
architecture for querying and storage. The problems of the 
blockchain traceability system's enormous data overload 


【第7页】
(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, 2023 
399 | P a g e  
www.ijacsa.thesai.org 
constraint and the lack of private security is addressed, and a 
suggestion for on-chain and off-chain file storage is made. The 
public data consumers see in the supply chain is stored in the 
IPFS, whose hash value is uploaded to the ledger system. For 
discussing with related firms, the blockchain maintains private 
data that has been encrypted using an encryption method. The 
storage approach described in this model integrates the 
existing scenario, considering the necessity for public scrutiny 
of supply chain public data and the requirement that private 
corporate information is encrypted, and minimizes the data 
burden on the chain. After the consumer scans the Tracking 
number for public database information, the system validates 
the information using the relevant block to verify if the 
product information has been updated. Blockchain technology 
is expected to develop in the direction of numerous test beds, 
platforms, and sharding. We will continue looking into the 
technology tying together diverse platforms and a cutting-edge 
consensus mechanism suitable for traceability in future 
studies. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors would like to express their gratitude to 
everyone who helped them write this article and provided data 
for this research. 
REFERENCES 
[1] K. Sornalakshmi, S. Sindh, G. Sujatha, and D. Hemavathi, “An 
architectural framework of a Decision Support System (DSS) to increase 
the returns of small-scale farmers in Kanchipuram District, India,” EAI 
Endorsed Trans. Energy Web, Vol. 0, No. 0, 2018, pp. 163978, 
https://doi.org/10.4108/eai.13-7-2018.163978. 
[2] L. Zhang, W. Zeng, Z. Jin, Y. Su and H Chen , "A Research on 
Traceability Technology of Agricultural Products Supply Chain Based 
on Blockchain and IPFS." Security and Communication Networks 2021, 
2021, https://doi.org/10.1155/2021/3298514. 
[3] F. Tian, “A supply chain traceability system for food safety based on 
HACCP, blockchain & Internet of things,” in 2017 International 
Conference on Service Systems and Service Management, 2017, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSSSM.2017.7996119. 
[4] M. K. Pawar, P. Patil, and P. S. Hiremath, “A Study on Blockchain 
Scalability,” in Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 
Singapore: 
Springer 
Singapore, 
2021, 
pp. 
307–316, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-8289-9_29. 
[5] S. Balachander and A. Murugan, "Challenges and Opportunities in the 
Advancement of Privacy and Security of Blockchain Technology." 
Telematique, Vol. 21, No. 1, pp. 6651-6659, 2022. 
[6] Shanthi and K. Venkatesh, “An analysis of various techniques in 
blockchain applications,” in 2022 6th International Conference on 
Intelligent 
Computing 
and 
Control 
Systems 
(ICICCS), 
2022, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICICCS53718.2022.9788137. 
[7] S.Nakamoto, "Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system." 
Decentralized Business Review (2008), pp.21260,2008, (White paper). 
[8] R.C.Merkle, "A digital signature based on a conventional encryption 
function." In Conference on the theory and application of cryptographic 
techniques, 
Springer, 
Berlin, 
Heidelberg, 
1987, 
pp. 
369-378, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48184-2_32. 
[9] E. Politou, F. Casino, E. Alepis and C. Patsakis, "Blockchain mutability: 
Challenges and proposed solutions." IEEE Transactions on Emerging 
Topics in Computing, Vol. 9, No. 4, 2019, pp.1972-1986, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/TETC.2019.2949510. 
[10] J. Benet, "Ipfs-content addressed, versioned, p2p file system." arXiv 
preprint 
arXiv:1407.3561, 
2014, 
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1407.3561. 
[11] C. Patsakis and F. Casino, "Hydras and IPFS: a decentralised 
playground for malware." International Journal of Information Security, 
Vol. 18, No. 6, 2019, pp.787-799, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10207-019-
00443-0. 
[12] S. Alam, M. Kelly, and M. L. Nelson, “Interplanetary Wayback: The 
permanent web archive,” in Proceedings of the 16th ACM/IEEE-CS on 
Joint 
Conference 
on 
Digital 
Libraries, 
2016, 
https://doi.org/10.1145/2910896.2925467. 
[13] X. Yang, M. Li, H. Yu, M. Wang, D. Xu, and C. Sun, “A trusted 
blockchain-based traceability system for fruit and vegetable agricultural 
products,” 
IEEE 
Access, 
Vol. 
9, 
2021, 
pp. 
36282–36293, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3062845. 
[14] Y. Liao and K. Xu, “Traceability system of agricultural product based 
on block-chain and application in tea quality safety management,” 
Journal of Physics: Conference Series, Vol. 1288, No. 1, 2019, pp. 
012062, https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/1288/1/012062. 
[15] C. Xie, Y. Sun, and H. Luo, “Secured data storage scheme based on 
block chain for agricultural products tracking,” in 2017 3rd International 
Conference on Big Data Computing and Communications (BIGCOM), 
2017, https://doi.org/10.1109/BIGCOM.2017.43. 
[16] D. Bumblauskas, A. Mann, B. Dugan and J. Rittmer, "A blockchain use 
case in food distribution: Do you know where your food has been?" 
International Journal of Information Management, Vol.52, 2020, 
pp.102008, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.09.004. 
[17] J. Hao, Y. Sun, and H. Luo, “A safe and efficient storage scheme based 
on blockchain and IPFS for agricultural products tracking,” Journal of 
Computers, 
Vol. 
29, 
2018, 
pp. 
158–167, 
doi:10.3966/199115992018122906015. 
[18] W. Yu and S. Huang, “Traceability of food safety based on block chain 
and RFID technology,” in 2018 11th International Symposium on 
Computational 
Intelligence 
and 
Design 
(ISCID), 
2018, 
DOI 
10.1109/ISCID.2018.00083. 
[19] J. H. Howard et al., “Scale and performance in a distributed file system,” 
ACM Trans. Computer Systems, Vol. 6, No. 1, 1988, pp. 51–81, 
https://doi.org/10.1145/35037.35059. 
[20] K. Venkatesh, L. N. B. Srinivas, M. B. Mukesh Krishnan, and A. 
Shanthini, “QoS improvisation of delay sensitive communication using 
SDN based multipath routing for medical applications,” Future 
Generation Computer Systems, Vol. 93, 2019, pp. 256–265, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.10.032. 
[21] J. F. Galvez, C. Juan, and J. Mejuto, “Future challenges on the use of 
blockchain for food traceability analysis,” TrAC Trends in Analytical 
Chemistry, 
Vol. 
107, 
2018, 
pp. 
222–232, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trac.2018.08.011. 
[22] K. Harshini Poojaa and S. Ganesh Kumar, “Scalability Challenges and 
Solutions in Blockchain Technology,” in Inventive Computation and 
Information Technologies, Singapore: Springer Nature Singapore, 2022, 
pp. 595–606 , DOI: 10.1007/978-981-16-6723-7_44. 

