来源文件：5Data secure application an application that allows developers to store user data securely using blockchain and IPFS.pdf
============================================================

【第1页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-023-17204-w
Data secure application: an application that allows
developers to store user data securely using blockchain
and IPFS
Rupesh Kumar Dewang1 · Mahendra Pratap Yadav2 · Surbhit Awasthi1 · Om Raj1 ·
Arvind Mewada1 · Kamlakant Laxman Bawankule1
Received: 11 April 2023 / Revised: 1 September 2023 / Accepted: 15 September 2023 /
Published online: 23 October 2023
© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023
Abstract
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the use of software applications has increased by end
users, which is an issue regarding user data privacy. Numerous apps are collecting sensitive
data like user location and phone number, which are becoming hotspots for cyber-attacks.
A cyberattack breaches your data, attacking your information, thereby losing data integrity,
conﬁdentiality, and availability. Cyberattack refers to the unauthorized intrusion of external
personnel into a user’s private digital space. We have proposed a solution to provide secure
data storage in third-party applications and leverage the power of Blockchain and Interplan-
etary File Systems. The proposed approach offers reliable role-based access to control data
storage service that maintains data integrity, availability, and conﬁdentiality. The proposed
model uses the aforementioned technologies because they provide a distributed and decen-
tralized nature of data storage and add-on support to data immutability. Traditionally the
technologies used for such services are centralized and provide a single point of attack for
the attacker. It puts conﬁdential user data in jeopardy. The proposed solutions store encrypted
data distributed to reduce reliance on big tech giants for data storage support and uproot the
fear of collapsing systems due to a single point of failure.
Keywords Blockchain · Interplanetary ﬁle system · Cryptocurrency · Ethereum
1 Introduction
In the current digital age, due to the Industrial Revolution 4.0, the number of Internet user’s
increases rapidly with a tremendous boom in the rise of online accesses the data and services
in a cloud environment. Users can access different services, namely Software as a Service,
Platform as a Service, and Infrastructure as a Service, through different cloud environments,
namely private clouds, public clouds, hybrid clouds, and multi-clouds [1, 2]. In the public
B Mahendra Pratap Yadav
mahendra@iiitp.ac.in
Extended author information available on the last page of the article
123


【第2页】
45492
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
cloud, the main concern is user data privacy because all users share their private data in
the public domain. Store the user’s data in a cloud storage environment has become an
essential aspect of the business model in the end user’s daily life. In a cloud environment, it
provides different data storage services for enterprises and individuals. It enables end users
to access and share the stored data anywhere and anytime. It has dramatically improved the
convenience of human lives [2]. Such cloud storage systems have been highly effective. They
are becoming increasingly popular because they solely rely on a single, large corporation with
a substantial amount of storage for data transmission and storage. The large company views
itself as a trusted third party; they inadvertently inherit the single point of failure downside of
using third-party services [3, 4]. Although cloud storage systems are substantiated for data
availability, cloud storage service providers may still be affected by some forces Majeure
(such as governmental censorship) that prevent customers from accessing their data [5, 6].
The price of storage devices has also decreased signiﬁcantly with the advancement of storage
technology.
The cost of centralized cloud storage services will be more expensive. According to the
perspective mentioned above, providing data storage and sharing services to the public in
the future requires decentralized storage architecture [7]. It is not necessary to rely on the
integrity of other parties to transmit and store data on our behalf, nor is it essential to be
concerned about data being unavailable. Fortunately, with the rise of Bitcoin, technology
such as Blockchain can implement a decentralized storage system. We can now connect P2P
cryptocurrency to storage space, bandwidth, CPU power, and other resources. The advent and
development of Blockchain improved the power of storing data in a decentralized manner.
Thanks to the development of the Blockchain. They are assuming the possibility of receiving
a return on cryptocurrencies [8, 9] while renting out free additional hard drive space online.
Users do not need to be concerned that they will not be able to access their data because the
availability of data will be there by smart contracts implemented on the Blockchain, and they
only need to pay a regular charge for the data they have stored.
In conventional cloud storage systems, a technology requires to achieve access control
over data that can only be read and decrypted by a single user for users to exchange data stored
in a third-party cloud server covertly. The need led to the proposal and quick development
of the attribute-based encryption method (ABE) [10]. Using this technique, the data owner
can establish ﬁne-grained access control over the data by deﬁning the data access policy
based on the user’s identity and attributes. The establishment of the system and distribution
of the corresponding secret key for users are required by almost all ABE encryption methods
(PKGs) [11]. Such a method has plenty of issues. In truth, it is challenging to locate a reliable
PKG to start. Second, a system like this has a problem with key abuse because users’ data
ownership is not under their control. The PKG can decrypt all of the data on the server, and
the PKG may release user information due to political censorship or other concerns. When
the data owner loses his secret key, he can no longer decode his own data, but PKG can still
do so. In real-world scenarios, the data owner must be able to manage their data and provide
secret keys to users. For instance, a data manager in a hospital should be able to give a secret
key to his physicians and other staff members so that they can access different levels of data
per their position.
Undoubtedly, the digital age has brought the world closer, yet it has also exposed us to
risks. With increased internet usage, cyberattacks have risen alarmingly. Preserving user data
conﬁdentiality, integrity, and availability is paramount. In the era of application proliferation,
developers must prioritize user data security. Centralized data stores, often targeted in such
attacks, present a single point of failure. Compromising this data store jeopardizes the entire
system/application and the user’s data, causing simultaneous loss of availability and integrity.
123


【第3页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45493
Conﬁdentiality may persist if data is encrypted. These centralized systems rely heavily on tech
giants for storage [37], which are regarded as trusted third-party data repositories. However,
this reliance ampliﬁes the risk of political intervention and censorship. For instance, if a
country bans Amazon Web Services (due to strained relations with the USA), a signiﬁcant
portion of that country’s internet services would collapse since they depend on AWS. Another
major demerit of a centralized data store is the cost of data storage. The cost of centralized
data stores is high because of the data center’s rent, employee salary, and legal work, deemed
an increasing function of time. Due to these factors, data storage in centralized data stores
becomes complex and less secure daily. So, it required a decentralized and distributed data
storage system that does not rely on any central authority like a company or government.
With the arrival of Bitcoin and its underlying technology, Blockchain can build such a storage
service now, which is decentralized, distributed, immutable, and secure. The novelty of
paper is the proposed solution provides secure data storage in third-party applications and
leverages the power of Blockchain and Interplanetary File Systems. The proposed approach
offers reliable role-based access to control data storage service that maintains data integrity,
availability, and conﬁdentiality. The proposed model uses the aforementioned technologies
because they provide a distributed and decentralized nature of data storage and add-on support
to data immutability.
The subsequent sections of the paper are structured as follows: Section 2 elucidates the
motivation behind the proposed work, Section 3 provides an overview of the background
and related technologies, Section 4 presents a summary of related work, Section 5 intro-
duces the proposed work, while the experimental setup and result analysis are discussed in
Section 6. Finally, the paper concludes with the presentation of ﬁndings and future directions
in Section 7.
2 Motivation
In response to the onset of COVID-19 in our nation, numerous individuals are rallying to
combat the novel coronavirus by harnessing technology, developing applications, websites,
and trackers. Despite their noble intentions, these developers grapple with an ongoing chal-
lenge of privacy breaches, leading to the alarming disclosure of private user information on
a massive scale. With COVID-19 necessitating stringent measures such as social distancing
and lockdowns, users’ personal data is susceptible to being collected by numerous appli-
cations, thereby becoming vulnerable to potential attacks and hacks by malicious actors.
Recognizing the urgent need to prioritize data security and privacy in this critical time, we
aspire to construct a system that safeguards users’ privacy and signiﬁcantly enhances data
security for any application that seeks to utilize proposed system for data storage. To fulﬁll
this objective, we intend to leverage the capabilities of Blockchain and IPFS (Interplanetary
File System) technology.
3 Background and related technology
The primary aim is to comprehend how Blockchain and Interplanetary File Systems (IPFS)
can effectively contribute to the secure storage and access of user data. Subsequently, we
intend to devise a role-based access control model, leveraging the aforementioned technolo-
gies, to establish a secure data storage service. Ultimately, the goal is to develop a service
123


【第4页】
45494
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
that facilitates a transition from existing centralized storage systems to a fully decentralized
and secure storage framework. This transition is guided by a commitment to enhance the
three essential pillars of security: conﬁdentiality, integrity, and availability.
This section offers a foundational understanding of Blockchain and IPFS, key components
employed in the proposed work.
3.1 Blockchain technology
A Blockchain [12] is essentially a sequence of blocks that holds valuable information. This
concept was initially conceptualized by a group of researchers in 1991. Its original purpose
was to afﬁx timestamps to digital documents, thereby preventing any manipulation or back-
dating, much akin to a notary’s function. Despite its initial introduction, the technology lay
dormant until 2009 when Satoshi Nakamoto [13] employed it to craft the digital cryptocur-
rency “Bitcoin.” A blockchain constitutes a decentralized ledger accessible to all interested
parties.
Blockchainspossessacaptivatingcharacteristic:oncedataisrecordedwithinablockchain,
altering it becomes an intricate task. To comprehend this, let’s delve deeper into their mechan-
ics. At its core, a block, as depicted in Fig. 1, essentially comprises data, the hash of preceding
blocks, and the hash of the current block. The nature of data stored within a block varies
based on the type of Blockchain [14] being utilized. For instance, the Bitcoin blockchain
stores transaction details within its blocks. In this study, the Ethereum blockchain serves as
the reference point.
As a block comes into existence, a hash is computed. This hash, comparable to a unique
human ﬁngerprint, serves to unequivocally identify the block and its contents. Any alteration
within the block subsequently leads to a change in its hash. Therefore, hashes prove invaluable
in detecting modiﬁcations within a block. The chaining effect between blocks arises from
the hash of the previous block. This linking is pivotal for the security of the Blockchain. For
instance, let’s consider a chain consisting of three blocks: “A” (initial block or genesis block),
“B,” and “C.” Here, the hash of “A” (Ha) is “ABC,” the previous hash of A (PHa) is “000,”
the hash of “B” (Hb) is “XYZ,” the previous hash of B (PHb) is “ABC,” the hash of “C” (Hc)
is “123,” and the previous hash of C (PHc) is “XYZ.” Every block refers to the one before it,
except the ﬁrst block that lacks a predecessor. Now, if an individual manipulates the second
block, the hash of block “B” (Hb) alters, becoming a new hash like “a1a.” Consequently,
Fig. 1 A Blockchain and its major components [14]
123


【第5页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45495
block “C” and all subsequent blocks become invalid because they no longer possess a valid
hash linking them to the previous block. Thus, modifying a single block renders all ensuing
blocks invalid. This inherent hash-based mechanism ensures the immutability of data within
the Blockchain.
1. Proof of Work (PoW) and Mining: The cryptographic hashing method mentioned
earlier is not entirely sufﬁcient to thwart tampering attempts. In today’s high-speed sys-
tems, hundreds of thousands of hashes can be computed per second, potentially allowing
manipulation of a block and recalculating hashes for all other blocks to restore validity to
the Blockchain. To counteract this, the Blockchain employs a concept known as “Proof
of Work” (PoW). PoW operates as a mechanism that deliberately slows down the cre-
ation of new blocks. For instance, in the case of Bitcoin, approximately 10 minutes are
needed to compute the requisite proof of work and integrate a new block into the chain.
This mechanism substantially deters block tampering, as altering a single block would
necessitate recalculating the PoW for all subsequent blocks. The calculation procedure
for PoW is termed mining. PoW is calculated using a variable referred to as the “nonce,”
contained within the block. During the mining process, miners strive to identify a nonce
that leads to the ﬁrst “N” bits of the block’s hash commencing with zeros. The value
of “N” is dynamically determined within the network, usually around 32. Once a miner
discovers such a nonce, they broadcast the block to the network, and other nodes within
the network verify both the accuracy of the block and the transactions it encompasses.
Upon successful veriﬁcation, the block is integrated into the Blockchain, conclusively
solidifying the Blockchain’s immutability [15].
2. Ethereum: Ethereum operates as a blockchain network, akin to Bitcoin, yet it features
a decentralized application referred to as the Ethereum Virtual Machine [16], designed
for executing smart contracts. Ethereum is recognized as a programmable blockchain,
incorporating its programming language, Solidity. In an analogy, Solidity performs a
similar role for smart contracts as JavaScript does for HTML web pages in the context
of the World Wide Web. This means that Ethereum enables users to transact data on
its blockchain and orchestrate how that data is manipulated-a capacity that extends well
beyond the basic mathematical functions provided by the Bitcoin blockchain. Within the
Ethereum framework, you possess the capability to draft code that governs digital value,
executes exactly as intended, and remains accessible across the globe. Consequently,
Ethereum serves as a platform for decentralized blockchain applications, with its utility
extending beyond the conﬁnes of cryptocurrency.
3. Smart Contracts: The concept of a smart contract was initially introduced by Nick
Szabo in 1997, predating the creation of Bitcoin and Ethereum. A smart contract is a
compact computer program embedded within a blockchain. Operating on the blockchain
network, a smart contract functions as an actual real-world contract, serving as a mecha-
nism to uphold trust among various individuals engaging in signing or transacting through
it. Due to their execution within a blockchain environment, smart contracts operate
autonomously without necessitating human intervention, thereby eliminating intermedi-
aries from transactions conducted between different parties. As a result of the immutable
nature of blockchains, the source code of a smart contract remains inviolable. Essen-
tially, a smart contract is a program capable of executing all facets of a conventional
real-world contract. These smart contracts are deployed on the Ethereum blockchain,
speciﬁcally on the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). Following deployment, a con-
tract establishes a distinct contract address and an application binary interface (ABI).
This contract address, also known as a contract account, along with the ABI, facilitates
123


【第6页】
45496
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
interaction with the deployed contract through remote procedure calls. In our context, the
contract encompasses an implementation of a role-based access control model, enabling
access to data related to other duly veriﬁed and authorized users [17]. Only upon the
occurrence of a successful transaction on the contract is the associated transaction fee
deducted. The details of the contract’s content are outlined within Ethereum Accounts.
4. Ethereum Accounts: Within the Ethereum framework, a user effectively embodies an
account within the network. This account is accompanied by a pair of private and public
keys, ensuring exclusive access to its associated address. Similar to an ATM pin for a
Debit/Credit Card, a private key grants exclusive control over a speciﬁc account. Just as
a unique pin corresponds to a distinct card, a private key is tied to a speciﬁc account.
The Ethereum blockchain accommodates two distinct types of accounts: External Owned
Accounts (EOA) and Contract Accounts. These accounts are identiﬁed through a 160-
bit long hexadecimal string, like 0x6bAbcd1c5A89590cC10508e93dD59041ebF3f0B0.
Notably, the private key is solely generated for External Owned Accounts, allowing them
to perform transactions, invoke contracts, and possess balances and nonces associated
with them. On the other hand, a deployed smart contract governs the behavior of a contract
address. It encompasses dedicated storage space for code, as well as attributes such as
nonce and balance. This research speciﬁcally utilizes the code storage space to store
user information, including details such as name, role (pertaining to role-based access
control), and the AES user’s key. Additionally, the contract maintains a mapping of users
to the individuals they’ve granted access to. Lastly, the research stores a mapping of users
to ﬁle details, encompassing attributes like ﬁlename and a unique ﬁle identiﬁer linked to
IPFS, referencing an individual’s ﬁle [18].
5. Ether and Gas: Ether functions as the designated currency within the Ethereum
blockchain, serving as the medium of exchange for any transaction conducted on the
platform. Transactions encompass a variety of actions, including executing the code of
a contract, transferring funds across the blockchain, or any operation leading to perma-
nent modiﬁcations in the blockchain’s data structure. For instance, the activation of code
within a smart contract is initiated through a transaction. Should the transaction involve
merely reading data from the blockchain, Ether is not expended; however, a fee applies.
This fee, referred to as a transaction fee, is directed towards miners who undertake the
veriﬁcation of transactions. These miners execute the requested contract code, perform
calculations, store data within the blockchain, and communicate the alterations across the
network. The fee extended to miners is denominated in Gas, a unit that can be procured
using Ether [18]. When initiating a transaction, the sender is accountable for providing
the Ether necessary for the intended operation. Thus, the transaction cost in Ether can be
calculated as Transaction Cost (Eth) = Gas Used × Gas Price.
6. Ethereum Transaction: An Ethereum Transaction is a collection of the following enti-
ties:
(a) From:- Address (160 bits hexadecimal string) of the sender of the transaction.
(b) Account Nonce:- The nonce value related to the sender’s address (EOA/Contract
Address)
(c) To:- represent the address (160 bits hexadecimal string) of the receiver for the trans-
action. It can be another user (EOA) or a contract.
(d) Value:- The amount of Wei 1018 = 1 Ether to be transferred from “From Address”
to “To Address” if “To” is EOA; if “To” is a contract address, it is passed to deploy
the contract.
123


【第7页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45497
Fig. 2 Interplanetary File System
[26]
(e) Gas Price and Gas Limit:- The gas price signiﬁes the quantity of Wei allocated
to each unit of Gas. Conversely, the Gas Limit represents the upper threshold of
Gas Units the transaction sender is willing to expend on the transaction. Ethereum
operates such that each assembly instruction, derived from the compilation of the
smart contract to assembly, necessitates a speciﬁc, ﬁxed quantity of Gas units. For
instance, an instruction like “Sload” mandates 20 units of Gas.
Ethereum Transactions are a signed (signed by sender’s private key) packet of data [19–
22].
3.2 Interplanetary file system (IPFS)
The InterPlanetary File System, as depicted in Fig. 2, functions as a peer-to-peer hyper-
media protocol [9]. Its primary objective revolves around transitioning from a centralized
storage environment to a decentralized peer-to-peer storage ecosystem. This shift stems
from the recognition that placing complete reliance on third-party data storage systems
poses risks to data security. Moreover, the centralization of data storage is associated with
censorship concerns, enabling governments and ISPs to readily impose internet access restric-
tions. The IPFS draws inspiration from the BitTorrent swarm concept, conceptualizing the
entire peer-to-peer network as an extensive collective of users, each harboring ﬁles. To over-
come challenges linked to location-based addressing, IPFS adopts an intricate content-based
addressing approach, thus accommodating versioned ﬁle systems. By embracing such mech-
anisms, IPFS aims to provide solutions to address these concerns and intricacies [9].
IPFS employs various internal technologies, including a distributed hash table, an incen-
tivized block exchange, and a self-certifying namespace. Just like Blockchain, IPFS boasts a
decentralized structure that eliminates the presence of a single point of failure. Consequently,
when any ﬁle is uploaded to IPFS, it is assigned a unique ﬁle identiﬁer, enabling efﬁcient
location of the ﬁle within the network. Whenever someone within the network possesses
the ﬁle, they can provide it to the requester. The utilization of distinct ﬁle identiﬁers offers
several advantages, including preventing duplication (as identical ﬁles carry the same unique
identiﬁer), enabling self-veriﬁcation of received ﬁles (through comparing unique identiﬁers),
and enforcing access restrictions (requiring knowledge of the unique identiﬁer to access the
ﬁle).
For real-world applications, Blockchain is unsuitable for storing large ﬁles such as videos
or audios due to the high transaction fees associated. Thus, our research strategy involves
storing encrypted ﬁles on IPFS, accompanied by their respective unique ﬁle identiﬁers and
AES keys stored on the Blockchain. This approach facilitates ﬁle retrieval and decryption
exclusively when a transaction adheres to a speciﬁc user’s role-based access control policy.
Consequently, ﬁles can be retrieved, decrypted, and employed further in accordance with the
stipulated access permissions [18].
123


【第8页】
45498
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
4 Related work
In the present landscape, decentralized cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin [13], Zcash [19], and
Ethereum [16] have emerged as prominent areas of research, with blockchain technology
serving as the foundational framework for these digital currencies. This technology has
garnered signiﬁcant attention not only from the academic community but also from industry
experts. Moreover, blockchain technology has demonstrated its importance in the ﬁnancial
sector [21] and has gained traction in various non-ﬁnancial domains, including identity-based
PKI [23], decentralized supply chains [22], decentralized proof of document existence [10],
and decentralized storage [9].
In a study by Zyskind et al. [24], an approach was proposed to enhance personal data
management by enabling data owners to exercise control over their personal data through
the utilization of blockchain technology. This solution utilizes blockchain in conjunction
with off-chain storage methods, ensuring better privacy and protection for end-user data.
Similarly, in [25], authors tackled data privacy challenges within the realm of IoT systems
using a blockchain-based architecture. Their proposed approach leverages attribute-based
encryption (ABE) technology to provide robust data access control. Another study [26]
presented a framework that addresses security and privacy issues associated with big data,
utilizing a blockchain-based access control mechanism.
Decentralized storage systems such as IPFS [27], Sia [28], and Storj [29] have gained
popularity. They operate without reliance on centralized service providers, allowing users
to store ﬁles on storage nodes that provide available storage space. Our proposed system
adopts the foundational structure of blockchain technology. IPFS employs Filecoin [30] to
offer retrieval and storage services through a content-address-based decentralized storage
mechanism. However, it’s worth noting that IPFS may lack a robust privacy cryptographic
algorithm interface for end-users of uploaded ﬁles. On the other hand, the Storj platform
employs an end-to-end encryption mechanism, storing cryptographic hash ﬁngerprints of
ﬁles through the blockchain to enable ﬁle integrity veriﬁcation.
The Sia platform divides uploaded ﬁles into multiple segments, encrypting each segment
using a combination of blockchain technology and a peer-to-peer storage network. These
encrypted segments can be sent to nodes providing storage services through smart contracts,
with users paying using Siacoin. Storage nodes periodically submit proofs of storage to
prevent the deletion of stored ﬁles.
Numerous security-focused methods have been developed to address privacy issues con-
cerning personal data. Techniques such as data anonymization ensure k-anonymity, where
sensitive information is distinct from at least k-1 other records in a dataset [31]. Extensions
like l-diversity and t-closeness ensure diverse representation and distribution of sensitive data
[32, 33]. However, recent studies have revealed potential de-anonymization vulnerabilities
even with limited data [34]. Additional privacy-preserving approaches include differential
privacy, involving the introduction of noise to shared data, and encryption protocols that
allow computations on encrypted data. Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) [35] permits
computations over encrypted data, although its efﬁciency remains a challenge.
Given the surge in the utilization of Bitcoin and Blockchain as its underlying technology,
blockchain is now being adopted in ﬁnancial sectors [21] and non-ﬁnancial realms [22]. Stor-
ing data on the Ethereum blockchain is notably expensive, necessitating careful consideration
of which data should be placed on-chain and which should remain off-chain. Zyskind et al.
[24] introduced a decentralized platform that facilitates personal data collection and control,
combining blockchain with off-chain storage to maintain data integrity and conﬁdentiality.
123


【第9页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45499
Various decentralized data storage solutions, including IPFS [27] and Storj [29], operate off-
chain, using peer-to-peer networks to ensure data security and availability. However, these
solutions often lack robust access control mechanisms.
Wang et al. [36] proposed a blockchain-based framework for data sharing with access
control within decentralized storage systems. By integrating the Ethereum blockchain with
IPFS, this framework offers comprehensive data management, access control, and encryption
techniques to safeguard data. This paper highlights the drawbacks of traditional cloud storage
systems, such as single points of failure, government interventions, and centralized authority
overpricing. The proposed solution promotes the adoption of decentralized data storage to
enhance data privacy and reduce reliance on third parties for data security.
5 Proposed methodology
In Fig. 3, we illustrate the proposed service architecture and its utilization of a role-based
access control technique. The central idea behind this research is to offer application devel-
opers the opportunity to leverage the proposed architecture for storage services. Similar
to contemporary practices where developers rent storage systems from cloud providers like
“Amazon Web Services” or “Google Cloud Platform,” developers can now request an instance
of our service. Each new instance of our service results in the establishment of an isolated
network of users within the Blockchain framework. An admin user within this network holds
Fig. 3 Proposed architecture of data secure application
123


【第10页】
45500
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
the capability to add users to this network. The speciﬁc details of this network, along with the
endpoints required for access, are provided to application developers through an application
programming interface (API), speciﬁcally implemented using Web3.py Functions and the
IPFS Manager.
To demonstrate the functionality of our proposed service, we’ve developed a prototype of
a medical data storage system. This prototype serves as a third-party application that utilizes
our storage service. Let’s delve into the internal workings of our service.
5.1 Role-based access control (RBAC)
We have introduced a role-based access control model that operates at the blockchain level,
employing the OpenZeppelin library [14] for its implementation. This system encompasses
three distinct roles: User role, Privileged User role, and Admin role, each assigned with
speciﬁc functionalities as outlined below:
1. Admin Role:-This category of user is granted access to the blockchain network solely
for the purpose of adding users to the application network. These added users can either
be of the User or Privileged User type. However, this type of user does not possess access
to the data storage aspect of the service. The admin role is designated to a single indi-
vidual within the entire network ID during the service request. The requester includes
the user’s address they wish to assign as the network’s admin. For instance, in our sce-
nario, the managing director or board of directors of a hospital could be designated as
the system admin, while an application such as “ArogyaSetu,” under the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, could be another admin. With each addition of a new user
to the blockchain network, the following user details are recorded on the Blockchain: -
Username, - User’s AES key (a random key generated for each user using their address),
- User’s role (distinct for each user, categorizable as “User” or “Privileged User”).
2. User Role:- Users possessing this role have the capability to upload their data to the
system. The data that is uploaded undergoes encryption using the user’s AES key, after
which it is stored within the IPFS network. Simultaneously, metadata such as the ﬁlename
and the unique IPFS identiﬁer of the ﬁle are recorded in the Blockchain. Users of this type
have the privilege to access their data whenever they desire. Moreover, they also hold the
authority to grant or revoke permission to other users within the network. These other
users can belong to either the “User” or “Privileged User” category. It’s important to note
that only users who have been granted access to another user’s data can indeed access that
data. This control mechanism is embedded within the smart contract, which provides the
user with the exclusive ﬁle identiﬁer of the data they intend to access. The smart contract
ensures that any unauthorized access to the data recorded in the Blockchain is prevented.
This is achievable because, with the creation of each new system, an isolated blockchain
network is established, permitting solely the users added to this network to interact with
it. Additionally, users with this role can also view the data of other users who have granted
them access to their data.
3. Privileged User:- This user category inherits all the attributes of the “User” type while
introducing one additional capability unique to itself. This kind of user has the ability
to operate like a “User” and also upload data on behalf of any other user within the
network. This feature addresses a speciﬁc use case where third-party applications process
data that has been uploaded by a user and subsequently store this data in connection to
that speciﬁc user. For instance, consider a doctor who falls under the “Privileged User”
category. It’s plausible that the doctor might wish to upload patient test reports on behalf
123


【第11页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45501
of the patients, enabling them to access and view these reports. Similarly, applications
such as “ArogyaSetu” can utilize this feature to provide safety reports and health status
updates back to the user by uploading relevant information in correspondence with the
designated user. Internally, a role is represented as an enumerable collection of addresses,
each corresponding to a user within that speciﬁc role. Alongside the list of addresses,
a role also includes the speciﬁcation of its administrative role. This designation deﬁnes
which entity possesses the authority to modify or update the contents of this enumerable
list.
5.2 Ethereum network and EVM
We have utilized an Ethereum test network known as “Rinkeby” [15]. The Rinkeby test
network operates as an Ethereum-like test environment, complete with a corresponding
Ethereum Virtual Machine that executes the deployed smart contract. Whenever a user
requests access to the service, a fresh contract is deployed, providing them with the network
speciﬁcs and the application programming interface. This practice establishes an isolated
environment on the Blockchain, as only users registered with this contract can interact with
the data stored within the contract on the Blockchain. During contract deployment, the admin
address is linked to the contract. The smart contract responsible for managing role-based
access control over the Blockchain is referred to as the “SecureData” contract.
The “SecureData” contract encompasses the subsequent data members and member func-
tions:
• The “admin” variable of type “address” stores the address of the contract’s admin.
• The “PRIV ROLE” variable of type “bytes32” stores the role classiﬁcation for a “Privi-
leged User.”
• The struct userDetails holds the particulars concerning a new user, including:
– The “username” variable of type “string” stores the user’s name.
– The “key” variable of type “string” holds the encoded AES key speciﬁc to the user,
generated randomly using their address.
– The “roleName” variable of type “bytes32” denotes the user’s role, which is distinc-
tive and can be either “User” or “Privileged User.”
– The “adminRoleName” variable of type “bytes32” identiﬁes the admin of this user’s
role (the role contained in “roleName”). It is utilized to ensure that only an individual
is authorized to grant or revoke access for that particular “roleName.”
• The struct fileDetails encapsulates metadata associated with a ﬁle:
– The “ﬁlename” variable of type “string” stores the name of the ﬁle.
– The “ﬁleIPFSHash” variable of type “string” holds the unique IPFS identiﬁer for the
ﬁle.
• The “userDetailsMapping” variable is a mapping where the user’s address serves as the
key, and the corresponding value is an instance of the “userDetails” structure.
• The “userFilesDetailMapping” variable is another mapping where the user’s address
serves as the key, and the associated value is an array of instances of the “ﬁleDetails”
struct.
The contract also encompasses the following member functions:
123


【第12页】
45502
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
Algorithm 1 addNewUser.
1: procedure addNewUser(user Address, username, key, isDoc)
2:
// If admin does not sign Transaction, then
3:
if admin does not sign Transaction then
4:
throw error
5:
Initialize a bytes type array b of length 21
▷ convert user Address to bytes array
6:
for i in 0 to 19 do
7:
convert the i-th character of user Address to the i-th element in b array
8:
assign 0 to the last index of array b
9:
user Role ← calculated hash of b using keccak256 hash function
10:
assign 1 to the last index of array b
11:
user AdminRole ← calculated hash of b using keccak256 hash function
12:
set user AdminRole as admin of role user Role
13:
add user Address to both roles user AdminRole and user Role
14:
update userDetailsMapping with user Address as the key and an instance of userDetails
struct containing username, key, user Role, user AdminRole
15:
if isDoc is true then
16:
add user Address to PRIV ROLE
Algorithm 2 getKeyForPrivUser.
1: procedure getKeyForPrivUser(user Address)
2:
// If a user with PRIV ROLE does not sign the transaction, then
3:
if a user with PRIV ROLE does not sign the transaction then
4:
throw error
5:
return userUserDetailsMapping[userAddress].key
Algorithm 3 getKeyForUser.
1: procedure getKeyForUser
2:
// If a user does not sign the transaction in the network, or they are not authorized to access the key of
this role, then
3:
if a user does not sign the transaction in the network, or they are not authorized to access the key of this
role then
4:
throw error
5:
assign a variable tmp with the caller’s address
6:
return userUserDetailsMapping[tmp].key
• The “addNewUser(userAddress, username, key, isDoc)” function can only be executed
by the admin. This function veriﬁes whether the caller has the admin’s authorization. It is
used to create a new user and include them in the network. The function returns nothing
upon successful execution and an error in case of failure (Algorithm 1).
• The function “getKeyForPrivUser(userAddress)” can only be executed by a user with
the role “Privileged User.” Each time this function is called for the ﬁrst time, it checks
whether the caller has the “Privileged User” role. The function returns the encoded AES
key for the speciﬁed userAddress as outlined in Algorithm 2.
• The getKeyForUser() function can be executed by any user to retrieve their encoded
AES key. Prior to its execution, the function veriﬁes whether the caller is within the
network and possesses the necessary authorization to access the AES key for their role.
Upon successful execution, this function returns the encoded AES key associated with
the calling address (see Algorithm 3).
• The addFile(filename, fileIPFSHash) function enables any user to store
their ﬁle’s metadata in the Blockchain. Before executing the function, it is validated
whether the caller is part of the network and possesses the required permissions to add
123


【第13页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45503
Algorithm 4 Add ﬁle.
1: function addFile(ﬁlename, ﬁleIPFSHash)
2:
Require A user to sign the transaction in the network and be authorized.
▷ Veriﬁcation of user and
authorization
3:
Get caller’s address callerAddress
4:
Retrieve ﬁleDetailsArray from userFilesDetailMapping[caller Address]
▷ Retrieve the ﬁle details
array for the caller’s address
5:
Append ﬁlename and ﬁleIPFSHash to ﬁleDetailsArray ▷ Add ﬁlename and ﬁleIPFSHash to the array
ﬁle metadata to their respective role. Upon successful execution, this function does not
return any value. In case of failure, it returns an error, as illustrated in Algorithm 4.
Algorithm 5 addFileByPrivUser.
Require: user Address, privUser Address
Ensure: null
1: // Step 1
2: if Transaction by privUser Address is not signed by a user with PRIV ROLE then
3:
throw error
4: // Step 2
5: Update
the
f ileDetails
array
(corresponding
to
the
address
user Address
using
user FilesDetailMapping) by adding f ilename and f ileI P FSHash.
• addFileByPrivUser(userAddress,privUserAddress,ﬁlename,ﬁleIPFSHash):Thisfunc-
tion can only be executed by a user with the “Privileged User” role. Each time this
function is called, it is ﬁrst checked whether the caller has the “Privileged User” role.
This function enables a privileged user to add ﬁle metadata for other users. Upon suc-
cessful execution, this function returns no value, and in case of an error, it returns an
error status, as shown in Algorithm 5.
• grantPermission(externalUserAddress): Any user can execute this function to grant
permission to other external users for viewing their ﬁles/data. Each time this function
is called, it is checked whether the caller is on the network and whether they have the
authority to grant permission based on their corresponding role. This function returns
nothing upon successful execution and returns an error if the execution is unsuccessful,
as outlined in Algorithm 6.
• The revokePermission(externalUserAddress) function can be executed by any user to
revoke permission from other external users who were previously granted permission.
This action ensures that those users can no longer access the user’s ﬁles or data. Whenever
this function is invoked, it undergoes a veriﬁcation process to determine whether the caller
is part of the network and possesses the necessary authority to revoke permissions from
Algorithm 6 Grant permission.
Require: externalUserAddress
Ensure: null
1: if A user does not sign the transaction in the network, or they are not authorized to grant permission to the
role then
2:
throw error
3: Assign a variable tmp with the caller’s address
4: Access userUserDetailsMapping[tmp].roleName and add externalUserAddress to this role’s enumerable
list
123


【第14页】
45504
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
their associated role. Successful execution of this function yields no return value, while
unsuccessful attempts result in an error message (refer to Algorithm 7).
Algorithm 7 Revoke permission.
Require: externalUserAddress
Ensure: null
1: if A user does not sign the transaction in the network, or they are not authorized to revoke permission from
the role then
2:
throw error
3: Assign a variable tmp with the caller’s address
4: Access userUserDetailsMapping[tmp].roleName and remove externalUserAddress from this role’s enu-
merable list
• “The getNumberOfFiles(userAddress) function is accessible to any user who has been
granted permission to access ﬁle details for the speciﬁed user address. Initially, the
function veriﬁes whether the caller is authorized to view the ﬁle details. If the caller
possesses the required authorization, the function proceeds to provide the count of ﬁles
associated with the given userAddress. In the event that the caller lacks authorization,
the function returns the maximum value of uint256. Refer to Algorithm 8 for the outlined
process.
Algorithm 8 Get number of ﬁles.
Require: userAddress
Ensure: integer
1: if An authorized user of the network does not sign the transaction then
2:
return maximum value of uint256
3: return userFilesDetailMapping[userAddress].length
• The viewFileOfAParticularUser(userAddress, id) function is available for execution
by any user who has been granted permission to access ﬁle details for the speciﬁed
userAddress. This function returns the ﬁlename and ﬁleIPFSHash associated with the
userAddress and indexed at id, given that the calling user holds the necessary authoriza-
tion. In the event that the calling user lacks authorization, the function returns an error
as indicated in Algorithm 9.
Algorithm 9 View ﬁle of a particular user.
Require: userAddress, id
Ensure: ﬁlename, ﬁleIPFSHash
1: if An authorized user of the network does not sign the transaction then
2:
throw error
3: _ f ilename ← userFilesDetailMapping[userAddress][id].ﬁlename
4: _ f ileI P FSHash ← userFilesDetailMapping[userAddress][id].ﬁleIPFSHash
5: return _ f ilename, _ f ileI P FSHash
• The getCountOfMembersInMyRole() function is accessible to any user for obtaining
a count of members within their role. Whenever this function is invoked, it undergoes a
veriﬁcation process to ascertain the caller’s presence within the network and their autho-
rization to access role-related details. If the calling user holds the requisite authorization,
123


【第15页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45505
the function returns the count of members within the caller’s role. In instances where the
caller lacks authorization, Algorithm 10 returns the maximum value of uint256.
Algorithm 10 Get count of members in MyRole.
Require: null
Ensure: integer
1: if A user does not sign transaction in the network, or they are not authorized to act then
2:
return maximum value of uint256
3: Assign a variable tmp with the caller’s address
4: return the length of the enumerable list: userUserDetailsMapping[tmp].roleName
• The getMemberOfMyRoleById(id) function is accessible to any user for retrieving
details of a speciﬁc member within their role. Whenever this function is invoked, it
ﬁrst undergoes a veriﬁcation process to determine the caller’s presence within the net-
work and their authorization to access role-related details. If the calling user possesses
the necessary authorization, the function returns the userAddress and username of the
member corresponding to the provided id. In cases where the caller lacks authorization,
Algorithm 11 returns an error.
Algorithm 11 Get member of MyRole by Id.
Require: id
Ensure: userAddress, username
1: if A user does not sign the transaction in the network, or they are not authorized to act then
2:
throw error
3: user Address ← get user address from the enumerable list userUserDetailsMapping[msg.sender].roleName
at index id
4: username ← userUserDetailsMapping[userAddress].username
5: return user Address, username
5.3 Web3.py functions
Web3.py offers remote procedure calls that enable communication with our deployed con-
tract. This Python library facilitates interactions with the Ethereum blockchain. When a
requester obtains the application programming interface (API) of our storage service, the
API comes pre-conﬁgured with the contract address and the contract’s application binary
interface. These conﬁgurations are necessary for seamless communication with the deployed
contract. Subsequently, the requester can initiate the development of their application using
the endpoints/functions furnished in the Web3.py Functions section of the application pro-
gramming interface. These endpoints/functions are received upon registering for the data
secure storage service. The speciﬁc details pertaining to the endpoints/functions provided by
Web3.py Functions are outlined as follows:
• add new user(admin address, patient address, patient name, is doc): This function inter-
nally calls the addNewUser function of the contract, and it creates the encoded random
AES key for a user by using the user’s account address (Firstly, the user address is jumbled
randomly. Secondly, the SHA256 of this jumbled string of 42 characters is calculated.
Thirdly, the string is encoded in base64 to make it storable in the Blockchain). It returns
True on successful execution and False on unsuccessful execution.
123


【第16页】
45506
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
• The grant permission in bc(granted by, granted to) function internally calls the grantPer-
mission function of the contract. It returns True on successful execution and False on
unsuccessful execution. Revoke permission in bc(revoked by, revoked for): This func-
tion internally calls the revokePermission function of the contract. It returns True on
successful execution and False on unsuccessful execution.
• The add ﬁle hash to bc(address, ﬁlename, ﬁleIPFSHash): This function internally calls
the addFile function of the contract. It returns True on successful execution and False on
unsuccessful execution.
• The add ﬁle hash to bc by doc(doctor address, patient address, ﬁlename, ﬁleIPF- SHash):
This function internally calls the addFileByDoctor function of the contract. It returns
True on successful execution and False on unsuccessful execution.
• The get list of users with my permission(address) function internally calls the get-
CountOfMembersInMyRole and getMemberOfMyRoleById functions of the contract.
This function returns a list of dictionaries of members present in the user’s role having
address as address. The format for the list is: [‘name’:‘Mat,’ ‘address’: ‘0x53DE8E1..’]
Upon successful execution, it returns a tuple: (list of members, True) and (empty list,
False) is returned if something went wrong.
• The get list of user ﬁles(person accessing, whose ﬁle it is) functions internally calls the
getNumberOfFiles and viewFileOfAParticularUser functions of the contract. This func-
tion returns a list of dictionaries of all ﬁles uploaded by the address passed. The format for
the list is:[‘ﬁlename’:‘f1.jpg’,‘ﬁleIPFSHash’:‘Qmd8Ynugd3…] Upon successful execu-
tion returns a tuple: (list of ﬁles, True) and (empty list, False) is returned if something
went wrong.
• The get balance(address): This function returns the balance of the address account in
“Eth” rounded off to 4 decimal places.
• The get ﬁle count(address) function internally calls the getNumberOfFiles function of
the contract. It returns an integer representing the number of address ﬁles on successful
execution and the “Err!” string value on unsuccessful execution.
5.4 IPFS network
We utilize the ‘Infura’ network to provide us with a node-as-a-service. The IPFS network
operates as a peer-to-peer network, and running a standalone node from a device can be
resource-intensive. As a result, we opted to leverage the Infura IPFS node within our service.
This node seamlessly connects to the extensive IPFS swarm, effectively integrating our data
security service client into the IPFS network. This enables us to store and retrieve encrypted
data within the network. Our decision to use IPFS is rooted in its ability to counteract
censorship effectively and enhance internet resilience through its distributed architecture.
5.5 IPFS manager
Within the application programming interface of our service, we offer an additional com-
ponent known as the IPFS Manager. This component works in tandem with the Web3.py
Functions to facilitate the comprehensive secure storage of user data. The IPFS Manager takes
charge of both data uploading and downloading operations from the IPFS network. Moreover,
it oversees the crucial tasks of data encryption and decryption. Our service employs the AES
(Advanced Encryption Standard) as the encryption standard. Users’ AES keys consist of 256
bits, and AES encryption/decryption occurs in the CBC (Cipher Block Chaining) mode.
123


【第17页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45507
Algorithm 12 Add_ﬁle.
Require: ﬁlepath, user address, doctor address
Ensure: dictionary, bool
1: if ﬁlepath exists then
2:
if doctor address is populated then
3:
key 256 bit = call getKeyForPrivUser function of the contract to get the key of the user whose ﬁle is
to be uploaded
4:
else
5:
key 256 bit = call getKeyForUser function of the contract to get the key of the user whose ﬁle is to
be uploaded
6:
encrypt the ﬁle at ﬁlepath with key 256 bit using AES in CBC mode
7:
Initialize ﬁleDetailDictionary
8:
try
9:
upload the encrypted ﬁle to IPFS and store details in ﬁleDetailDictionary
10:
return (ﬁleDetailDictionary, True)
11:
catch Exception:
12:
return (ﬁleDetailDictionary, False)
13:
end try
14: else
15:
return (ﬁleDetailDictionary, False)
The IPFS Manager, complemented by the role-based access control model implemented
over the Blockchain, ensures the secure access of user data. This integration assists in safe-
guarding user data effectively. The IPFS Manager exposes two distinct endpoints/functions
for interacting with and storing data over the IPFS network: ‘Add a File’ as described in
Algorithm 12 and ‘Get the File’ as outlined in Algorithm 13.
Algorithm 13 Get File.
Require: ﬁlename, user address, the person accessing address, location
Ensure: string
1: // calling get the list of user ﬁles to function from web3.py
2: data authorized = get the list of user_ﬁles(person accessing address, user address)
3: if not authorized then
4:
// Access Forbidden
5:
return ‘403’
6: else
7:
for Each ﬁle details in data do
8:
if ﬁle details[‘ﬁlename’] == ﬁlename then
9:
// Initialize _le hash with ﬁle details[‘ﬁleIPFSHash’]
10:
File_path, err = retrieve the ﬁle from IPFS with the help of ﬁle_hash
11:
if not err then
12:
// Internal Server Error
13:
return ‘500’
14:
move the _le to the intended location
15:
// default value of the location is already set
16:
key 256 bit = call getKeyForUser function of contract to get the key of user whose _le is to being
retrieved
17:
if key 256 bit == ‘Err!’ then
18:
// Internal Server Error
19:
return ‘500’
20:
decrypted _le path = decrypt the _le at _le path with help of key 256 bit
21:
return decrypted _le path
22:
// File Not Found
23:
return ‘404’
123


【第18页】
45508
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
5.6 Third-party application
To demonstrate the operational prototype of our secure data storage service, we formulated a
prominent use case application centered around the imperative need for secure data storage
- the ‘Medical Record Storage System.’ This system serves as our foundational third-party
application model, harmoniously integrating with our ‘Data Secure Application.’ Within this
system, three distinct user roles are established: doctors designated as ‘Privileged Users,’
patients assigned the role of ‘Users,’ and the hospital encompassing the ‘Admin’ position.
Our third-party application encompasses a database that securely stores login credentials and
proﬁle data for both registered patients and doctors within the hospital’s purview.
The third-party application facilitates secure, distributed data storage on IPFS and
facilitates retrieval for the respective user through the role-based access control mecha-
nism elucidated previously. In this context, the administrator can include users - doctors
and patients - within the system. Patients are empowered to upload and download their
ﬁles/medical reports, bestow access permissions to other users and doctors, search for
ﬁles/medical reports from users who’ve granted them access, and manage permission revoca-
tions. Additionally, the patient’s account transactions and proﬁle particulars can be reviewed
on the third-party application’s dashboard and proﬁle page, respectively. The interactive
third-party application dashboard provides a user-friendly interface for patients to carry out
the aforementioned functions.
For doctors, the system enables the viewing of ﬁles and medical reports of users who have
granted access, as well as the capacity to assume the patient role. Notably, doctors can store
reports pertinent to different patients within their individual accounts. This feature proves
invaluable when speciﬁc patient pathology test results necessitate uploading for viewing.
This leverages the ‘Privileged User’ functionality to add data on behalf of any other user in
the system. Similar to the patient’s experience, the third-party application dashboard offers
doctors an interactive platform to execute all these functions.
6 Experimental setup and result analysis
6.1 Architecture flow
6.1.1 Login ﬂow
The application’s execution initiates as system users log in to their designated dashboards
(depicted in Figs. 4, 5 and 6). Internally, these dashboards retrieve the users’ account par-
ticulars through the utilization of Web3.py Functions. The hospital administration furnishes
distinct login credentials to patients and doctors, ensuring authentication through the third-
party application’s maintained database. Additionally, system users have the capability to
access and review their proﬁles (as showcased in Fig. 7). The third-party application encom-
passes all fundamental functionalities requisite for a medical record storage system.
6.1.2 Admin dashboard
Intheproposedservicecommenceswiththeadministrativelogin.Theadministratorholdstwo
pivotal responsibilities: the inclusion of general users and privileged users, thereby enabling
their engagement with our service.
123


【第19页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45509
Fig. 4 The user Files View details as a hash value in Authorized Doctor Panel
Fig. 5 If doctor not Authorized can’t see user Files view
123


【第20页】
45510
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
Fig. 6 Patient panel
Fig. 7 Patient and doctor Proﬁle
123


【第21页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45511
Within the proposed framework, the general user assumes the role of a patient, while the
privileged user embodies that of a doctor. Upon successful authentication, the administrator
gains access to the admin dashboard (depicted in Fig. 8), where the aforementioned tasks can
be executed. Speciﬁcally, the administrator conﬁgures users’ login credentials and orches-
trates their initial network inclusion. Notably, the administrative role is distinct from the data
storage facet of the service, with no direct involvement therein.
6.1.3 Doctor dashboard (privileged user)
In our application, the ’Privileged User’ is vested with the ability to access other users’ ﬁles
(provided access has been granted) and to upload ﬁles on behalf of different users. This
role encompasses all the functions associated with the ’User’ type. The doctor’s interaction
begins with authentication within the system. Subsequent to a successful authentication, the
doctor gains access to a search functionality available at the top of their dashboard (depicted
in Fig. 4). By employing this search feature, the doctor can locate user ﬁles. In the event that
the doctor is granted permission to view a speciﬁc user’s ﬁles, these ﬁles become visible in
Fig. 4. Conversely, an error message (Fig. 5) is displayed should the doctor lack the requisite
authorization. The doctor dashboard effectively employs Web3.py Functions and the IPFS
Manager to deliver the aforementioned functionality.
6.1.4 Patient dashboard (user)
Thepatient’sengagementcommenceswithauthenticationwithinthesystem.Uponsuccessful
authentication, the patient is directed to their personalized dashboard (depicted in Fig. 6).
Within this dashboard, the patient is empowered to execute several actions. Speciﬁcally,
the patient can upload ﬁles, access and view ﬁles they’ve uploaded, as well as manage the
authorization status of other users to view their data. This functionality is all facilitated
through the dashboard interface. Additionally, the dashboard offers insight into user account
transactions, providing comprehensive visibility into account-related activities.
Fig. 8 Admin panel
123


【第22页】
45512
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
6.1.5 Access control ﬂow
Both doctors and patients utilize Web3.py Functions and IPFS Manager internally to access
user data while adhering to the role-based access control system. The Web3.py Functions
interface with the smart contract deployed on the Rinkeby network, while the IPFS Manager
oversees the ﬁle storage process on the IPFS network through the utilization of Infura. This
coherent process operates in alignment with the established access control framework.”
Please note that the provided text seemed to be repeated. I’ve corrected it to make sure it
conveys the intended meaning clearly
6.2 Discussion and results analysis
This section delves into the outcomes of our data secure application concerning performance,
security, and economic feasibility. The application effectively delivered the envisaged func-
tionalities, and the ensuing Figs. 9 and 10 and Tables 1, 2 and 3 encapsulate the outcomes. The
security assurances furnished by our service become apparent through our adept management
of data conﬁdentiality, integrity, and availability.
• Conﬁdentiality: It is a paramount requirement for retrieving any ﬁle from the IPFS
network. The requesting node must possess the unique ﬁle identiﬁer, which, crucially,
remains concealed from the user in our use case. Even if a user on the network somehow
gains access to the unique ﬁle identiﬁer of another user’s ﬁle, the ﬁle itself remains
encrypted. Users’ keys are securely stored within the Blockchain, safeguarded by a role-
based access control scheme. Thus, the viewing of another user’s ﬁles is contingent
upon explicit authorization by valid entities. This dual-layered mechanism ensures data
conﬁdentiality, precluding any breach of private user data.
• Integrity: It is guaranteed by the inherent characteristics of transactions within the
blockchain network. Each transaction is implicitly signed by its sender, allowing for
the swift identiﬁcation of unauthorized actions carried out by malicious users on others’
data. Additionally, the role-based access control scheme veriﬁes the validity of trans-
actions for the designated user. Thus, the combination of transaction signatures and the
Fig. 9 Variation of Blockchain transaction cost with ﬁle size on uploading ﬁle
123


【第23页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45513
Fig. 10 Variation of Blockchain transaction cost with ﬁlename length on uploading ﬁle
role-based access control scheme preserves data integrity. Over the IPFS network, the
unique ﬁle identiﬁer further reinforces data integrity, as any alteration to the data triggers
a change in this identiﬁer.
• Availability: It is ensured due to the distributed and decentralized nature of the underlying
technologies - Blockchain and IPFS. Data remains consistently accessible, devoid of
single points of authority or failure. Blockchain users maintain copies of all blocks, and
IPFS operates on a peer-to-peer network akin to BitTorrent. This inherent design sustains
availability.
Results from the experimental analysis yielded several noteworthy insights, including:
• Granting certain users the permission to write data for other users, offering a potential
avenue for application programmers to enhance functionality.
Table 1 Smart contract function call cost (Gas Limit: 3000000, Gas Price: 1 gwei = 10−9 eth = 0.00001767[9])
Functions
Gas Used
Actual Price (Eth)
In Rupees
addNewUser: User
306369
0.000306369
5.47
addNewUser: Priv. User
371522
0.000371522
6.64
getKeyForPrivUser
0
0
0
getKeyForUser
0
0
0
addFile
114417
0.000114417
2.06
addFileByPrivUser
114457
0.000114457
2.07
grantPermission
76857
0.000076857
1.38
revokePermission
25566
0.000025566
0.64
getNumberOfFiles
0
0
0
viewFileOfAParticularUser
0
0
0
getCountOfMembersInMyRole
0
0
0
getMemberOfMyRoleById
0
0
0
*Filename’s length for addFile and addFileByPrivUser functions is 15 characters
123


【第24页】
45514
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
Table 2 Break up of time taken by different ﬁle sizes to upload
File Size
Encryption Time
Mining Time
IPFS Storage Time
Total Time
1 MB
0.02s
9.55s
0.88s
10.45s
5 MB
0.06s
15.85s
1.42s
17.33s
10 MB
0.05s
6.05s
2.29s
8.39s
15 MB
0.07s
12.79s
2.96s
15.82s
20 MB
0.11s
16.22s
4.24s
20.57s
• Initial access to ﬁles uploaded to the Interplanetary File System may incur some delay
due to the initiation of the Bitswap algorithm [13], which orchestrates the formation of
ﬁle blocks.
• Financial implications necessitate consideration, as certain actions entail user expendi-
tures.
• In IPFS, if a user is ofﬂine, their ﬁles become inaccessible. However, content-based
addressing permits replication of ﬁles to users who have previously accessed them, main-
taining ﬁle availability.
• IPFS introduced “Filecoin” [3] as a solution, incentivizing ﬁle preservation by offering
monetary rewards.
• The pricing for storage in Blockchain, contingent upon ﬁlename length, renders econom-
ical storage of substantial ﬁles compared to centralized cloud-based storage services.
In outcomes, we have successfully achieved the proposed objective: to restrict user access
to other users’ data without explicit permission, ensuring secure data storage. The pro-
posed prototype data storage system embodies attributes of distribution, decentralization,
immutability, and security. Through this system, we have effectively addressed the chal-
lenges posed by centralized storage solutions.
7 Conclusion and future work
In the current global landscape, it is inspiring to witness the collective effort in safeguarding
individuals from the dire impact of COVID-19. A common underpinning concern among
Table 3 Break up of Time taken by Different File Sizes to Download
Speciﬁc
AWS S3: Standard
Service cost
Our
Service
cost
Storage of First 50 TB / Month
1.88 per GB
0
Storage of Next 450 TB / Month
1.81 per GB
0
Storage of Next 450 TB / Month
1.73 per GB
0
Adding Data
0
2.06 per ﬁle
Fetching Data
4.52 per GB
0
Granting Permission
NA
1.36
Revoking Permission
NA
0.46
Contract Deployment Cost (One Time)
NA
41.44
123


【第25页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45515
developers is the secure storage of user data within their applications. Often, developers
resort to conventional cloud-based storage solutions, which can introduce vulnerabilities.
The critical issue lies in the centralization of these solutions, resulting in a single point of
failure susceptible to targeted attacks or external pressures, including government interven-
tions. Such circumstances endanger the availability, integrity, and conﬁdentiality of user data,
potentially rendering applications futile and prone to data breaches. The proposed decen-
tralized storage service addresses the challenge of single points of failure by prioritizing
the availability, integrity, and conﬁdentiality of data through a peer-to-peer network. This
approach harnesses the principles of role-based access control and encryption, serving as the
pillars for data conﬁdentiality and integrity. Availability, on the other hand, is reinforced by
the inherently decentralized and distributed nature of Blockchain and IPFS. This obviates the
need for a trusted cloud provider. The research’s overarching goal was to ensure the privacy
and security of user data in third-party applications. Moving forward, the research could
be extended by incorporating role-based access control at the ﬁle level. This would allow
users to grant selective access to speciﬁc ﬁles rather than their entire dataset. Additionally,
we intend to deploy an application programming interface built with Web3.js, facilitating
seamless integration with web applications. Furthermore, we envision transforming the IPFS
Manager from Python to JavaScript. This transition aims to alleviate the load on third-party
application servers, catering to both novice developers and testing scenarios. Additionally,
providing users the capability to set Gas Limit and Gas Price should be considered, as the
current values of 3000000 and 1GWei = 10−9Eth = 0.00001767 are ﬁxed.
Availability of Data and Materials Data sharing not applicable to this article as no datasets were generated or
analyzed during the current study’.
Declarations
Funding and/or Conﬂicts of interests/Competing interests This work has not any funding support, it has not
any conﬁcts of interests or competing interests.
References
1. Zhang Q, Cheng L, Boutaba R (2010) Cloud computing: state-of-the-art and research challenges. J Int
Serv Appl 1:7–18
2. Pratap Yadav M, Pal N, Kumar Yadav D (2021) A formal approach for docker container deployment.
Concurr Comput Pract Exp 33(20):e6364
3. Wang S, Zhang Y, Zhang Y (2018) A blockchain-based framework for data sharing with ﬁne-grained
access control in decentralized storage systems. Ieee Access 6:38437–38450
4. Ahmad S, Mehfuz S, Mebarek-Oudina F, Beg J (2022) Rsm analysis based cloud access security broker:
a systematic literature review. Cluster Comput 25(5):3733–3763
5. Rao RV, Selvamani K (2015) Data security challenges and its solutions in cloud computing. Proced
Comput Sci 48:204–209
6. Yang P, Xiong N, Ren J (2020) Data security and privacy protection for cloud storage: A survey. IEEE
Access 8:131723–131740
7. Raﬁque A, Van Landuyt D, Beni EH, Lagaisse B, Joosen W (2021) Cryptdice: Distributed data protection
system for secure cloud data storage and computation. Inf Syst 96:101671
8. Gray C (2014) Storj vs. dropbox: Why decentralized storage is the future. On line at: https://
bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/storjvs-dropboxdecentralized-storage-future, 1408177107
9. Benet J (2014) Ipfs-content addressed, versioned, p2p ﬁle system. arXiv:1407.3561
10. Nyo MT, Mebarek-Oudina F, Hlaing SS, Khan NA (2022) Otsu’s thresholding technique for mri image
brain tumor segmentation. Multimed Tools Appl 81(30):43837–43849
123


【第26页】
45516
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
11. Zhang J, Wang XA, Ma J (2015) Data owner based attribute based encryption. In 2015 international
conference on intelligent networking and collaborative systems. IEEE, pp 144–148
12. Zarrin J, Wen Phang H, Babu Saheer L, Zarrin B (2021) Blockchain for decentralization of internet:
prospects, trends, and challenges. Cluster Comput 24(4):2841–2866
13. Nakamoto S (2008) Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. Decentral Bus Rev
14. Decuyper X (2020) How does a blockchain work - simply explained. https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=SSo_EIwHSd4. Accessed 01 June 2020
15. Prakash R, Anoop VS, Asharaf S (2022) Blockchain technology for cybersecurity: A text mining literature
analysis. Int J Inf Manag Data Ins 2(2):100112
16. Casino F, Dasaklis TK, Patsakis C (2019) A systematic literature review of blockchain-based applications:
Current status, classiﬁcation and open issues. Telemat Inf 36:55–81
17. Khan SN, Loukil F, Ghedira-Guegan C, Benkhelifa E, Bani-Hani A (2021) Blockchain smart contracts:
Applications, challenges, and future trends. Peer-to-peer Netw Appl 14:2901–2925
18. Laurent A, Brotcorne L, Fortz B (2022) Transaction fees optimization in the ethereum blockchain.
Blockchain Res Appl 3(3):100074
19. Etherscan API. https://etherscan.io/apis. Accessed 02 June 2020
20. Gwei to INR (Gwei to Indian Rupee). https://www.cryps.info/en/Gwei_to_INR/. Accessed 03 June 2020
21. Blockchain for ﬁnancial services. https://ibm.com/blockchain/industries/ﬁnancial-services. Accessed 29
May 2020
22. Blockchain for the supply chain. https://www.ibm.com/blockchain/industries/supply-chain. Accessed 29
May 2020
23. Fromknecht C, Velicanu D, Yakoubov S (2014) A decentralized public key infrastructure with identity
retention. Cryptol ePrint Archive
24. Zyskind G, Nathan O et al (2015) Decentralizing privacy: Using blockchain to protect personal data. In:
2015 IEEE security and privacy workshops. IEEE, pp 180–184
25. Rahulamathavan Y, Phan RC-W, Rajarajan M, Misra S, Kondoz A (2017) Privacy-preserving blockchain
based iot ecosystem using attribute-based encryption. In 2017 IEEE international conference on advanced
networks and telecommunications systems (ANTS). IEEE, pp 1–6
26. Es-Samaali H, Outchakoucht A, Leroy JP (2017) A blockchain-based access control for big data. Int J
Comput Netw Commun Secur 5(7):137
27. IPFS powers the distributed Web. https://ipfs.io/. Accessed 29 May 2020
28. Vorick D, Champine L (2014) Sia: Simple decentralized storage. Retriev May 8:2018
29. Storj Labs I (2018) Storj: A decentralized cloud storage network framework
30. Labs P (2017) Filecoin: A decentralized storage network
31. Sweeney L (2002) k-anonymity: a model for protecting privacy. Int J Uncert Fuzz Knowl-based Syst
10(5):557–570
32. Li N, Li T, Venkatasubramanian S (2006) t-closeness: Privacy beyond k-anonymity and l-diversity. In:
2007 IEEE 23rd international conference on data engineering. IEEE, pp 106–115
33. Machanavajjhala A, Kifer D, Gehrke J, Venkitasubramaniam M (2007) l-diversity: Privacy beyond k-
anonymity. ACM Trans Knowl Disc Data (TKDD) 1(1):3–es
34. Narayanan A, Shmatikov V (2006) How to break anonymity of the netﬂix prize dataset. arXiv:cs/0610105
35. Gentry C (2009) Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In: Proceedings of the forty-ﬁrst
annual ACM symposium on theory of computing. pp 169–178
36. Wang S, Zhang Y, Zhang Y (2018) A blockchain-based framework for data sharing with ﬁne-grained
access control in decentralized storage systems. IEEE Access 6:38437–38450
37. Benet J, Greco N (2018) Filecoin: a decentralized storage network. Protocol Labs
Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and
institutional afﬁliations.
Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under
a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable
law.
123


【第27页】
Multimedia Tools and Applications (2024) 83:45491–45517
45517
Authors and Aﬃliations
Rupesh Kumar Dewang1 · Mahendra Pratap Yadav2 · Surbhit Awasthi1 · Om Raj1 ·
Arvind Mewada1 · Kamlakant Laxman Bawankule1
Rupesh Kumar Dewang
rupeshdewang@mnnit.ac.in
Surbhit Awasthi
Surbhitaawasthi@gmail.com
Om Raj
omraj@gmail.com
Arvind Mewada
mewadabpl@gmail.com
Kamlakant Laxman Bawankule
kamalakant.bawankule@gmail.com
1
Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad, Prayagraj 211004, India
2
Computer Science and Engineering Department, Indian Institute of Information Technology Pune,
Pune Maharshtra, 411041, India
123

