来源文件：17Smart contract-based agricultural food supply chain traceability.pdf
============================================================

【第1页】
Received December 17, 2020, accepted January 5, 2021, date of publication January 8, 2021, date of current version January 15, 2021.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3050112
Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply
Chain Traceability
LU WANG
1,2,3, LONGQIN XU1,2,3,4,5, ZHIYING ZHENG1,2,4, SHUANGYIN LIU
1,2,3,4,5,6,
XIANGTONG LI1,2,5, LIANG CAO1,2,3,4,5, JINGBIN LI6, AND CHUANHENG SUN
7
1College of Information Science and Technology, Zhongkai University of Agriculture and Engineering, Guangzhou 510225, China
2Smart Agriculture Engineering Technology Research Center of Guangdong Higher Education Institutes, Zhongkai University of Agriculture and Engineering,
Guangzhou 510225, China
3Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Agricultural Products Quality & Safety Traceability Information Technology, Zhongkai University of Agriculture and
Engineering, Guangzhou 510225, China
4Academy of Smart Agricultural Engineering Innovations, Zhongkai University of Agriculture and Engineering, Guangzhou 510225, China
5Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Waterfowl Healthy Breeding, Guangzhou 510225, China
6College of Mechanical and Electric Engineering, Shihezi University, Shihezi 832000, China
7National Engineering Research Center for Information Technology in Agriculture, Beijing 100097, China
Corresponding author: Shuangyin Liu (hdlsyxlq@126.com)
This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 61871475, in part by the Special Project
of Laboratory Construction of Guangzhou Innovation Platform Construction Plan under Grant 201905010006, in part by the Guangdong
Science and Technology Plan of Project under Grant 2017B0101260016, in part by the Foundation for High-level Talents in Higher
Education of Guangdong Province under Grant 2017GCZX0014, Grant 2016KZDXM0013, Grant 2017KTSCX094, and
Grant 2018LM2168; in part by the Guangzhou Science and Technology Project under Grant 2018GXJK072, and in part by the Beijing
Natural Science Foundation under Grant 4182023.
ABSTRACT The complexity of a supply chain makes product safety or quality issues extremely difﬁcult
to track, especially for the basic agricultural food supply chains of people’s daily diets. The existing
agricultural food supply chains present several major problems, such as numerous participants, inconvenient
communication caused by long supply chain cycles, data distrust between participants and the centralized
system. The emergence of blockchain technology effectively solves the pain-point problem existing in
the traceability system of agricultural food supply chains. This paper proposes a framework based on the
consortium and smart contracts to track and trace the workﬂow of agricultural food supply chains, implement
traceability and shareability of supply chains, and break down the information islands between enterprises as
much as possible to eliminate the need for the central institutions and agencies and improve the integrity of
the transaction records, reliability and security. At the same time, farmers record details of the environment
and crop growth data in the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) and store ﬁle IPFS hashes in smart contracts,
which not only increases data security but also alleviates the blockchain storage explosion problem. This
framework has been applied in Shanwei Lvfengyuan Modern Agricultural Development Co., Ltd. Although
there are still many defects, the framework has successfully realized functions such as disintermediation and
tracing of agricultural product information through QR codes. Thus, the framework proposed in this paper
is of great signiﬁcance and reference value for enterprises to ensure product quality and safety traceability.
INDEX TERMS Blockchain, smart contract, agricultural food supply chain, traceability, food safety.
I. INTRODUCTION
The supply chain connects many entities, such as suppli-
ers, logistics providers, processors, distributors, retailers, and
consumers, forming a complex network chain structure. This
complex supply chain may go through dozens or even hun-
dreds of stages, leading to considerable time consumption
and involving a wide range of regions. Therefore, in this case,
The associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript and
approving it for publication was Emanuele Bellini
.
if the product has safety or quality problems, the traceability
process is extremely difﬁcult. Especially in agricultural food
supply chains, the process ensures the traceability of the ﬁnal
products, which not only guarantees consumer life and health
but also improves user trust in the product and enterprise.
In recent years, prevalent food safety accidents have caused
people to devote more attention to food safety and quality.
However, the current agricultural food supply chains are char-
acterized by a long life cycle, numerous and complex links,
and dynamic information, etc., so it is difﬁcult to track and
9296
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
VOLUME 9, 2021


【第2页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
trace problems in a certain link. Agricultural foods are foods
produced by agriculture, such as sorghum, rice, peanuts, corn,
and wheat, which form the basis of people’s daily food,
and their importance is self-evident. Subsequently, it is very
important to establish and improve the agricultural food sup-
ply chain traceability system ‘‘from farm to fork’’ [1]–[3].
There are three major problems with the existing agri-
cultural food supply chains. First, there are many partici-
pants in the supply chain, and the communication between
them is not convenient, leading to a long cycle of the whole
supply chain. Then, due to the large number of participants
and distribution in different links, the information sharing
is poor, and data is not trusted among participants. Finally,
the agricultural food supply chain is a centralized system
with power concentrated on the central manager and data
easily tampered with. Although the central manager is under
the supervision of government departments, there are always
loopholes in human supervision [1], [4]–[6]. By reason of
this situation, in order to effectively track product informa-
tion, ensure product safety and quality, and thus ensure the
safety of consumers, the research on advanced traceability
technology and its systems wields important research value to
guarantee the quality and safety of agricultural food. To date,
many researchers have studied and developed supply chain
traceability systems based on barcodes, QR codes and radio
frequency identiﬁcation devices (RFID), but most of these
systems still have some problems. First, most of the traceabil-
ity systems are develop based on a single enterprise, which is
an internal traceability system by which information is not
easily shared. Second, the majority of traceability systems
are based on centralized development, and the information
is opaque and asymmetric, with the risk of tampering by
the administrator and low credibility. Finally, existing trace-
ability systems have a single point of failure, and once a
node fails, the whole system will crash. The emergence of
blockchain technology effectively solves the pain point of the
existing agricultural food supply chain traceability systems.
Blockchain is a distributed ledger system which consists of
one-by-one blocks with timestamps in the form of a decen-
tralized database in the point-to-point (P2P) network. There-
fore, it has the characteristics of decentralization, immutabil-
ity, anti-tampering and traceability. Blockchain technology is
introduced into the agricultural food traceability system to
track the information of the supply chain process, offering
the advantages of reducing the management cost, improving
the information credibility, realizing the visualization of the
supply chain process data and the traceability of the infor-
mation, etc. [2], [7]–[10]. In view of the many advantages
of blockchain, the research on traceability systems based
on blockchain is growing rapidly [11]. In the medical ﬁeld,
Yong et al. [12] developed a ‘‘vaccine blockchain’’ system
based on the blockchain and machine learning technology,
and can be used to address the problems of vaccine expiration
and vaccine record fraud by using the traceability and smart
contract of the blockchain. Tripathi et al. [13] proposed an
smart healthcare system framework based on blockchain to
provide a secure and privacy-protecting healthcare system.
In the ﬁeld of protecting privacy, Chen et al. [14] pro-
posed a novel on-chain and off-chain data storage model and
developed a prototype system to verify the feasibility of the
model, thus solving the problems of information redundancy
and insufﬁcient storage space in blockchain. However, this
framework is only applicable to personnel information man-
agement system and has not been extended to more ﬁelds.
Yang et al. [15] proposed a blockchain privacy-preservation
crowdsensing system, which solves the risk that the existing
crowd-testing system is vulnerable to attack, invasion and
manipulation. In the ﬁeld of traceability, Liu and Li [16],
with respect to the background of cross-border e-commerce,
proposed a framework based on blockchain and developed
a set of corresponding technologies and methods to realize
product traceability and transaction traceability in supply
chain management. The key methods and algorithms, such as
the information anchoring method, key distribution method,
information encryption algorithm and anti-counterfeiting
algorithm, are developed to solve the key recovery problem
and effectively resist clone attack, counterfeit label attack
and counterfeit product attack. However, this system is not
implemented for actual business. Baralla et al. [17] proposed
a traceability system for agricultural product supply chains
based on the blockchain hyperledger Sawtooth technology,
which implements the EU’s ‘‘farm-to-fork’’ model. Con-
sumers can learn detailed product information through QR
code scanning and verify product quality and safety. How-
ever, the Sawtooth technology is not mature enough and lacks
materials and applications. Yu and Huang [18] designed a
foot ring based on blockchain and RFID technology to solve
the problem of poultry food safety, which is conducive to
timely detection of health problems in the poultry breed-
ing process, and helps consumers to track information and
quickly locate speciﬁc links in the poultry breeding life
cycle when problems occur. Nevertheless, RFID technology
is not mature enough and exhibits insufﬁcient security and
excessive cost: it is thus not practical for the full application
to large poultry farms. Based on the research of RFID and
blockchain technology, Tian [19] established a traceability
system for agricultural food supply chains which covers the
whole process of data collection and information manage-
ment of all links of the entire supply chain, and also realizes
the quality and safety monitoring, traceability and traceability
management of agricultural supply chains. Similarly, because
of the same shortcomings as those of the previous paper,
the system cannot be widely used in all ﬁelds.
This paper proposes a framework based on consortium
chain and smart contracts to track and trace workﬂows in
agricultural food supply chains, implement traceability and
shareability of supply chains, and disrupt information islands
between enterprises as much as possible to eliminate the need
for the central agencies and intermediaries and improve the
transaction record integrity, reliability, and security. At the
same time, farmers record the environmental information and
details of crop growth data into the InterPlanetary File System
VOLUME 9, 2021
9297


【第3页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
(IPFS). The ﬁle IPFS hash is stored in the smart contracts,
which not only increases the data security but also allevi-
ates the blockchain storage explosion problem. Besides, this
framework has been applied in Shanwei Lvfengyuan Modern
Agricultural Development Co., Ltd. Although there are still
many defects, it has successfully achieved decentralization
and traced the information of agricultural products through
QR codes, which will be brieﬂy introduced in the following
article.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 reviews the related work. Section 3 introduces
some basic knowledge. In Section 4, we discuss the
design, system overview and entity sequence diagram. Then,
Section 5 describes implementation details including algo-
rithms for agricultural food sales between various partici-
pants using smart contracts. Finally, Section 6 presents the
conclusions.
II. RELATED WORK
Food is the basis of people’s survival, and food safety is
closely related to people’s health: thus, people are devoting
increasing attention to food safety. In recent years, experts
have become more interested in food traceability. The ﬁrst
technology applied to food safety traceability is Internet
of Things (IoT) technology [20], [21], such as barcodes,
QR codes, and RFID technology. Li et al. [22] proposed a
food traceability system for the dairy supply chain based on
QR codes, which improves the transparency from production
to sales and builds a food traceability platform. However,
QR codes are not suitable for living bodies, such as poul-
try and waterfowl, and are easily damaged by pollution.
RFID is the most widely used technology in the IoT to
realize food traceability due to its low cost and small size.
De-an et al. [23] developed an RFID-based pork supply chain
traceability system. A set of pork quality monitoring and
tracking systems was constructed by using Structured Query
Language (SQL) Server 2000 and intelligent identiﬁcation
technology to realize the information traceability of the entire
pork production process. Yiying et al. [24] designed a com-
plete life cycle food traceability system, which uses RFID
technology to realize whole process monitoring from source
to consumption. At the same time, the RFID fault-tolerant
mechanism is designed to ensure the practicability of the
system. Mondal et al. [25] used object-based validation pro-
tocols, real-time quality monitoring with RFID sensors at
the physical level, and blockchain technology at the net-
work level to create a transparent food supply chain. How-
ever, RFID technology also presents some defects such
as immature technology, high cost, inconsistent technical
standards and low security. In addition, most of the trace-
ability system data based on the IoT are stored in SQL
Server and other central databases, which leads to problems
like information asymmetry, data tampering and escalating
data volume, thus increasing the cost of centralized stor-
age. Blockchain technology has the characteristics of decen-
tralization, immutability, anti-tampering and traceability.
The application of blockchain technology in agricultural
food safety traceability systems can store traceable data in
chronological order, which is conducive to solving the prob-
lems remaining in the existing agricultural food traceability
systems.
As a result, the combination of blockchain technology and
food traceability has become a new trend in recent years.
Tian [26] proposed the traceability of food supply chains
based on hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP)
by combining blockchain and IoT. IoT technology automati-
cally collects and stores information, improves the reliability
of information and enhances food safety. Blockchain can
ensure that data will not be tampered with after the chain,
which improves the authenticity of the traceability informa-
tion. However, since data quantities are constantly increasing,
the blockchain cannot hold all of it. Hao et al. [27] stud-
ied a traceability storage scheme using IPFS and secondary
databases. IPFS is a technique for storing and sharing data
in a distributed ﬁle system. To retrieve data from the IPFS,
the transaction hash must be accesssed from the secondary
database and then the IPFS hash must be retrieved from the
blockchain. This approach solves the blockchain data explo-
sion problem, but if the secondary database fails, the entire
system will fail.
With the advent of the blockchain 2.0 era, the self-execution
and self-veriﬁcation features of smart contracts have made
them widely used in food safety traceability systems.
Wang et al. [3] proposed a product quality management
system that uses smart contracts technology to permanently
record all product transactions. In [28], the author presented
a collaborative food safety traceability system based on
blockchain and EPCIS, and adopted enterprise-level smart
contracts to solve problems such as disclosure of sensitive
information, data tampering and trust transfer. At the same
time, the system also adopts the dynamic management of data
on and off the chain to alleviate the problem of data explosion
on the blockchain. Salah et al. [2] researched a method of
using blockchain and smart contracts to execute business
transactions, so as to realize traceability and visibility in
the soybean supply chain. The solution aims to eliminate a
trusted centralized authority, provide transaction records, and
use smart contracts to manage and control transaction inter-
actions between participants in the soybean supply system.
These transactions are recorded and stored on the blockchain
and connected to the IPFS, providing transparency and trace-
ability to the soybean supply chain system in a safe and
reliable manner. The huge advantage of smart contracts is not
only widely used in food safety traceability. Omar et al. [29]
presented a method based on blockchain, using Ethereum
smart contracts and decentralized storage system to automate
processes and information exchange, and capture the detailed
algorithm of interaction between supply chain stakeholders,
provides them with a compact, safe, reliable and transparent
communication mode, has solved the Vendor Managed Inven-
tory operation of data integrity, transparency, traceability
and single point of failure. Zhang et al. [30] proposed a
9298
VOLUME 9, 2021


【第4页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
novel secure billing protocol for online ride-hailing vehicles,
which solved the difﬁcult problem of fare estimation and
automatic payment through smart contracts. Xuan et al. [31]
proposed a data sharing incentive model based on evolution-
ary game theory using blockchain with smart contracts, which
could dynamically control the excitation parameters and
continuously encourages users to participate in data sharing.
Tso et al. [32] introduced the ﬁrst decentralized electronic
voting and bidding systems based on a blockchain and smart
contract, which improved the anonymity of participants,
privacy of data transmission, and reliability and verifability of
data.
The consortium chain is a kind of blockchain which
is managed by multiple organizations or institutions, and
the data can only be read, written and maintain by these
organizations or institutions. This disrupts the information
islands between enterprises and is very suitable for agricul-
tural food safety traceability systems. Ethereum and hyper-
ledger are two popular consortium chain platforms [2] based
on Ethereum, while Wal-Mart [33], the world’s largest
retailer, is experimenting with food traceability through
IBM’s hyperledger. Taking advantage of the key features
of the blockchain and smart contracts, Shahid et al. [34]
deployed the Ethereum blockchain network to propose a
blockchain-based reputation system in the agricultural and
food supply chain. In [35], the authors proposed a decen-
tralized storage mechanism based on Ethereum. The use
of IPFS overcomes the problems of centralized storage of
sensitive data leaks and single points of failure. Before the
data is stored in IPFS, the ﬁle is encrypted using the ﬁle
encryption algorithm, and the ciphertext is uploaded to IPFS,
which provides the hash value of the stored ﬁle recorded in
Ethereum. However, due to the increased computing over-
head, the proposed solution will not work effectively in an IoT
scenario.
III. PRELIMINARIES
A. BLOCKCHAIN
As we mentioned above, blockchain is a distributed ledger
system that consists of one-by-one blocks with timestamps in
the form of a decentralized database in the P2P network [23],
[24]. As the underlying technology of Bitcoin, blockchain
technology has gradually emerged into the public conscious-
ness. Although this new concept has become a hot topic in
recent years, in fact, some technologies it relies on, such as
asymmetric encryption technology and P2P network proto-
col, have existed for a long time. However, blockchain is a
good combination of encryption technology, consensus algo-
rithm, timestamp technology and smart contracts, forming a
distributed system where users can be anonymous and data
can be trusted. It offers the advantages of decentralization,
immutability, anti-tampering and traceability, etc. It is widely
applied in the ﬁelds of medical treatment, education, credit
and supply chain traceability. Fig. 1 shows the blockchain
structure.
FIGURE 1. The structure of blockchain.
As can be observed from the diagram, the connection
between blocks is produced by the hash value of the previous
block, which is the unique identiﬁer of each block. In this
way, the connection from the latest block to the ﬁrst block is
created by the sequence of each block to its parent hash value,
creating a form similar to a data structure. The block consists
of a header and a body. The header contains a version number,
nonce, timestamp, previous block hash, block difﬁculty and
Merkle tree. The block difﬁculty determines the difﬁculty of
mining. The nonce is the answer to the math problem the
miners are looking for, and the previous block hash is used to
connect the previous block. The timestamp is the generation
time of each block, which corresponds to the authentication of
each transaction record, ensuring the authenticity of the trans-
action record. The body mainly contains transaction data.
The Merkle tree appears to be very similar to a binary tree,
and it can summarize and quickly verify all transaction data
in a block. Each leaf node uses the hash of the data block as
its tag, and each non-leaf node uses the encrypted hash of its
child node’s tag as its tag. As shown in the body area of the
diagram, the respective hash values of each transaction are
taken as leaf nodes, and the hash values of the two leaf nodes
are combined for another hash calculation to generate the
parent node, namely the Merkle root. When the transaction
records are tampered with, the value will be inconsistent.
Such a storage method not only enables the blockchain to
quickly discover that the information has been tampered with
but also enables it to quickly locate the speciﬁc transaction
information.
B. CONSORTIUM CHAIN
The blockchain is divided into public chain, private chain and
consortium chain. In the public chain, anyone can send trans-
actions and participate in the consensus process. The whole
network is open, without authorization, and characterized by
‘‘complete decentralization’’. The private chain is generally
the blockchain within the enterprise, whose authority is com-
pletely in the hands of an organization or a person, with
the lowest degree of decentralization. The consortium chain
exists between the public chain and the private chain and is
a special blockchain requiring registration and permission: it
is only open to speciﬁc organizations or institutions, so it can
maintain the distributed structure, limit the number of par-
ticipants, and can only be veriﬁed in the blockchain through
VOLUME 9, 2021
9299


【第5页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
pre-set nodes, thus enhancing security. The consensus algo-
rithm is implemented by validating data and blocks through
pre-selected nodes rather than by all nodes in the entire net-
work, which accelerates the generation of blocks and shortens
the time to reach consensus and validate data. Therefore,
the consortuim chain exhibits characteristics such as few
consensus nodes, high system operation efﬁciency and rapid
transaction speed. Agricultural food traceability systems have
high requirements with respect to privacy protection, trans-
action speed and internal supervision: if every participant
joins the consortium chain, these systems combined with the
smart contracts technique can effectively solve the issue that
existing agricultural food traceability systems are established
on the basis of a single enterprise development, thus disrupt-
ing the information islands between enterprises to make the
adoption of consortium chains in agricultural food traceabil-
ity systems more suitable [36]–[40].
C. HYPERLEDGER
Hyperledger is an open source collaborative project initiated
by the Linux Foundation in 2015 to promote blockchain
digital technology and transaction veriﬁcation. It is the
ﬁrst distributed ledger platform for enterprise application
scenarios, involving technology and ﬁnancial giants such
as IBM, Intel, Cisco, and R3. Hyperledger can be divided
into distributed ledger technology, libraries and tools. Fab-
ric is the most important application project of Hyper-
ledger technology, which is a general license blockchain
with modular and extensible characteristics, follows the
execution-sequence-validation paradigm and fundamentally
deviates from the order-execution model. Fabric consists
of four parts: (1) Describing the roles between nodes in
the infrastructure; (2) Execution of the smart contracts;
(3) Conﬁgurable consensus; (4) Membership services, whose
modular structure provides a high degree of conﬁdential-
ity, ﬂexibility and extensibility applicable to any industry
[41],
[42].
HyperLedger
establishes
consortium
chain
through channel and uses membership service provider(MSP)
to control the permissions of nodes. As an important commu-
nication mechanism, channel is an independent communica-
tion channel between members that transactions sent in it can
only be seen by members belonging to the channel. There
can be multiple channels in the network, and each channel
maintains an account of its own channel.
IV. AGRICULTURAL FOOD TRACEABILITY
BASED ON BLOCKCHAIN
In this section, we use the hyperledger fabric to build con-
sortium chain and smart contracts named chaincode to track
and execute transactions in the agricultural food supply chain.
This method eliminates the need for a central authority, real-
izes decentralization, and provides complete, reliable and
secure transaction records for the management and security of
the agricultural food supply chain, ensuring the authenticity
and reliability of the agricultural food information that ulti-
mately reaches the consumer.
A. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
Smart contracts have the ability to integrate agricultural and
agricultural food safety into an integrated intelligent system,
thus ensuring the quality and safety of agricultural food and
the health of consumers. This paper presents a framework
for the use of automated smart contracts on the hyperledger
platform. According to the information in the agreed contract,
when the trigger condition is met, the smart contracts auto-
matically send out the preset data resources, including the
events of the trigger condition. This is a system of transaction
processing modules and state mechanisms that do not gener-
ate or modify smart contracts but only enable a complex set
of digital commitments with trigger conditions to be executed
correctly according to the will of the participants. Smart con-
tracts are executed by tens of thousands of nodes distributed
around the world and are the result of consensus. Nodes are
one of the components of the blockchain network, namely,
participating entities in the agricultural food supply chain.
These nodes can collect, validate, and execute transactions,
and store the data and results of these transactions in a ledger,
which will eventually be replicated and synchronized by all
nodes. As a result, all nodes have the same ledger information
without contingency. As mentioned earlier, smart contracts
receive transactions and trigger events in the form of function
calls, enabling participating entities to continuously monitor,
track, and receive appropriate alerts when violations occur.
Fig. 2 depicts a general overview of the system architecture
presented in this paper, with the main participating entities
including the agricultural bureau, farmer, processor, qual-
ity supervision bureau, distributor, retailer, consumer, and
blockchain implementing smart contracts.
As shown in Fig. 2, in order to achieve traceability of
agricultural food, information is recorded using hyperledger
smart contracts, and all participants in the agricultural food
supply chain are added to the process. The agricultural bureau
records farmer information, seed information, plot informa-
tion and yield information, etc., and carries out uniﬁed man-
agement of farmers’ production to ensure the authenticity of
source information. Farmers cultivate crops and record the
environment and growth detail data of the crops in IPFS,
where the growth images of the crops are marked with times-
tamps. Timestamps represent complete and veriﬁable data
that already exists at a given point in time, providing the user
with electronic proof of when some of the user’s data was
generated. The ﬁle IPFS hash is stored in smart contracts.
When the crops mature, the farmer harvests them and then
sells them to a processor for a series of processing steps.
The quality supervision bureau supervises the processing to
ensure the safety and quality of agricultural food. The ﬁn-
ished agricultural foods are purchased in bulk by a distributor,
stored and sold to a retailer, who buys agricultural food from
a distributor and sells it directly to the customer in small
quantities.
Data stored in the blockchain or IPFS is encrypted by the
entity storing the data using a digital signature, which offers
the following advantages: (1) Anti-tampering: After signing,
9300
VOLUME 9, 2021


【第6页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
FIGURE 2. A system overview for agricultural food traceability using
hyperledger smart contracts.
the authenticity of the data is determined through the calcula-
tion and veriﬁcation of the signature to ensure the integrity of
the data; (2) Non-repudiation: A digital signature can be used
as the identity authentication of the stored data entity, or as
the evidence of the signer’s operation; (3) Conﬁdentiality:
Data loss is likely to lead to data leakage, but the digitally
signed data needs to be decrypted to obtain the original data.
Entities are responsible for their own data, the blockchain
automatically executes programs through smart contracts,
and entities will execute punishment measures if they commit
illegal activities. In the planting stage, farmers use a variety
of sensors to upload the growing environment information
and details of crops directly to the server in real time. The
data is not processed by human beings, which enhances the
authenticity and anti-tampering characteristic of the data and
enables the data to be audited and trusted.
B. SYSTEM DESIGN
The agricultural food supply chain completes the entire pro-
duction and transportation process ‘‘from farm to fork’’,
involving many participating entities, and forming long and
complex characteristics that make tracking the entire pro-
cess very cumbersome. Therefore, for traceability purposes,
we record the information and add the unique identity and lot
number of the food to each subsequent transaction when the
transaction is initiated, and record the hash value to ensure
the authenticity of the transaction. A batch is a group of
foods in a warehouse whose batch number is the unique
identiﬁer. To address the blockchain data explosion and IPFS
limitations, the hash of the data is stored in the hyperledger,
and the transaction data is stored in the IPFS. Access control
policy is adopted to restrict blockchain reads and writes,
ensuring that transactions are executed by authorized users
and enhancing data security. Similarly, smart contracts allow
only speciﬁc entities to execute. Entities are registered in
the system and interact through the smart contracts. The
processing of the entity in the agricultural food supply chain
is shown in Fig. 3, and the description of each entity is as
follows:
1) AGRICULTURAL BUREAU
The agriculture bureau is an organization that manages farm-
ers, keeping records of farmers’ information, seed informa-
tion, plot information and yield information to ensure the
FIGURE 3. The simple agricultural food process in the agricultural food
supply chain.
authenticity of source information. The information is stored
in the IPFS, and its hash value is stored on the chain.
2) FARMER
The farmer is responsible for planting crops, using sensors
to monitor and record details of crop growth, such as water,
air, sunlight and soil quality in the growing environment, and
storing the information regarding the process of crop growth
in IPFS in the form of images or MPEG ﬁles. In addition,
the farmer is responsible for creating smart contracts and
storing IPFS data hashes in smart contracts.
3) PROCESSOR
The farmer harvests crops and sells them to the processor,
who processes the raw crops into produce purchased by the
ﬁnal consumer, and stores the batch information, quantity,
and inspection information of the ﬁnished products in IPFS.
The data hash is stored in the blockchain, and the data label
is ﬁnally generated and pasted on the product packaging.
4) QUALITY SUPERVISION BUREAU
The quality supervision bureau mainly manages the pro-
cessing and guides the quality supervision and inspection,
and is responsible for the implementation of product quality
supervision and compulsory inspection of the production
enterprises. To investigate and punish violations of laws and
regulations concerning standardization, measurement and
quality, and crackdown on illegal activities related to coun-
terfeiting and shoddy goods, its information is recorded on
the IPFS, and the hash value is stored on the blockchain.
5) DISTRIBUTOR
The ﬁnished product may go through multiple levels of
distribution before reaching the retailer. The distributor is
responsible for storing processed agricultural products and
selling them to retailers in batches. Company information,
product selling time, price and other information is stored
in IPFS, and like the situation for the quality supervision
bureau, the hash value is stored in blockchain to ensure that
the subsequent data is not tampered with.
6) RETAILER
The retailer buys processed produce from the distributor and
sells it in small quantities to consumers. Basic information of
the retailer, time of selling, quantity sold and other informa-
tion is recorded in IPFS, and the hash value is also recorded
in the blockchain.
7) CUSTOMER
Consumers are the users who purchase and consume the ﬁnal
agricultural food, and can obtain the complete supply chain
information of the agricultural food according to the barcode,
VOLUME 9, 2021
9301


【第7页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
FIGURE 4. Entity relationship diagram.
RFID or QR code on the product package to realize the
traceability function of agricultural food information.
C. ENTITY SEQUENCE DIAGRAM
The relationships between entities, as shown in Fig. 4, show
some of the key properties and capabilities of the smart
contracts, as well as the relationships between entities and
smart contracts. Each participating entity in the agricultural
food supply chain participates by calling a function in the
smart contracts. The smart contracts are created by the farmer,
who grows the crop and uploads the growing environment,
details and images to the IPFS by calling updateGrowthInfo(),
which is stored in the IPFS hash, and updates the update-
GrowthInfo() until the crop is ready for harvest. When the
crops are harvested, the trade begins between the farmer
and the processor. Once the farmer and the processor have
negotiated the details of the agreement, the farmer agrees and
sells the crop to the processor. Fig. 5 shows the sequence
diagram of the farmer and processor executing the sellToPro-
cessor() and buyCropFromFarmer() functions, respectively.
First, the processor executing the buyCropFromFarmer()
function, passing processor address, quantity and sales date
parameters to activate the smart contract trigger the CropRe-
quested() event to notify the participants, and passing and
recording these parameters. Then, the farmer executing the
sellToProcessor() function, passing the farmer address, pro-
cessor address, quantity and sales date parameters, the smart
contract trigger the CropSold() event to notify closing the
transaction, and passing and recording these parameters.
Fig. 6 shows a sequence diagram of the processor and dis-
tributor collaboration using smart contracts. The distributor
is a warehouse that buys processed produce in bulk from
various processors and sells it to retailers. Firstly, the distribu-
tor trigger AgriFoodRequestedByDistributor() event, passing
distributor address, processor address, quantity and sales date
parameters to notiﬁes the processor selling agricultural food
to it, then the farmer performs the sellAgriFoodToDistribu-
tor() function, passing processor address, distributor address,
FIGURE 5. Sequence diagram showing interactions among farmers, smart
contracts, and processors.
FIGURE 6. Sequence diagram showing interactions among processors,
smart contracts, and distributors.
sales quantity and sales date parameters to activate the Agri-
FoodSoldToDistributor() event to notify interaction entities.
Retailers buy agricultural food from distributors, execut-
ing the buyAgriFoodFromDistributor() function, and passing
retailer address, distributor address, quantity parameters. The
activation AgriFoodRequestedByRetailer() event notiﬁes the
distributor, the distributor then performs the sellAgriFood-
ToRetailer() function to sell agricultural food to the retailer,
and activated event AgriFoodSoldToRetailer() notiﬁes the
relevant participant of this process. At the same time, passing
the addresses of both parties, quantity, batch number and sales
date parameters. Finally, the retailer sells the agricultural
food to the customer by executing the sellAgriFoodToCus-
tomer() function, passing retailer address, customer address,
agri-food name and sales date parameters, and broadcasts
the process for the agricultural food via the AgriFoodSold()
event. Fig. 7 shows a sequence diagram of distributor, retailer
and customer.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
As mentioned above, the smart contracts are created by the
farmer. In the initial state of establishing the smart contracts,
the smart contracts will check whether the farmer is regis-
tered. The processor then issues a purchase request, at which
time the contract status is buyCropFromFarmer, and two
conditions need to be checked: (1) Whether the requested
9302
VOLUME 9, 2021


【第8页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
FIGURE 7. Sequence diagram showing interactions among distributors,
smart contracts, retailers and customers.
processor is a registered entity; (2) Whether the processor has
paid the fee. If these two conditions are satisﬁed, the contract
status changes to CropRequestAgreed, the processor status
is now WaitForCropFromFarmer, the farmer status changes
to SellCropToProcessor and all active entities receive infor-
mation from the farmer about selling crops to the processor.
If the above two conditions are not met, the contract state
becomes CropRequestFailed, the processor state is Request-
Failed, and the farmer state is CancelRequestOfProcessor.
Algorithm 1 describes the process by which farmers sell their
crops to processors.
Algorithm 1 Farmer Sell Crops to Processor
Input: ‘rp’ is the list of registered Processors
Address of Processor,
Address of Farmer,
Quantity, DatePurchased, CropPrice
1 Contractstate is buyCropFromFarmer
2 State of the processor is CropRequested
3 Farmer state is WaitForSellCropToProcessor
4 Restrict access to only rp ∈ Processor
5 if CropSale is agreed and CropPrice = paid then
6
Contract state changes to CropRequestAgreed
7
Change State of the processor to
WaitForCropFromFarmer
8
Farmer state is SellCropToProcessor
9
Send a notiﬁcation of crop sale to processor
10 end
11 else
12
Contract state changes to CropRequestFailed
13
State of processor is RequestFailed
14
Farmer state is CancelRequestOfProcessor
15
Send a notiﬁcation stating request failure
16 end
17 else
18
Reset contract and displays an error message.
19 end
The processor then sells the processed crop to a distributor,
who in turn sells it to retailer, as shown in algorithm 2.
At this point, the production date, sales quantity and purchase
date of the agricultural food are important parameters of the
current stage. First, with respect to recognition address and
the states of the distributor and retailer, due to the distributor
having just ﬁnished the trade with the processor, the smart
contract status is AgriFoodSoldToDistributor, and the state
of the distributor is AgriFoodReceivedFromProcessor. The
status of the retailer is ReadyToPurchase, which must satisfy
two conditions: (1) Whether the requested retailer is a reg-
istered entity; (2) Whether to agree to the sales agreement
and whether the agricultural food payment has been com-
pleted. If these two conditions are satisﬁed, the contract will
automatically execute the transaction with the contract status
changed to SaleRequestedSuccess, distributor status changed
to AgriFoodSoldToRetailer, and retailer status changed to
AgriFoodDeliveredSuccess. Upon completion of the transac-
tion, the deed will send a notiﬁcation of successful delivery
to the retailer. If the above two conditions are not satisﬁed,
the contract status is changed to SaleRequestDenied, the dis-
tributor status is changed to RequestFailed, the retailer sta-
tus is changed to AgriFoodDeliveryFailure, and the contract
sends a notiﬁcation of failure to all participants.
Algorithm 2 Distributor Sell Agri-Food to Retailer
Input: ‘rr’ is the list of registered Retailer
Address of Distributor,
Address of Retailer,
DateManufactured, Quantity,
DatePurchase
1 Contractstate is AgriFoodSoldToDistributor
2 State of the distributor is
AgriFoodReceivedFromProcessor
3 Retailer state is ReadyToPurchase
4 Restrict access to only rr ∈ Retailer
5 if Sale is agreed and Price = paid then
6
Contract state changes to SaleRequestedSuccess
7
Change State of the distributor to
AgriFoodSoldToRetailer
8
Reatailer state is AgriFoodDeliveredSuccess
9
Send a ‘success’ notiﬁcation to retailer.
10 end
11 else
12
Contract state changes to SaleRequestDenied
13
State of distributor is RequestFailed
14
Retailer state is AgriFoodDeliveryFailure
15
Send a ‘failure’ notiﬁcation to all participants.
16 end
17 else
18
Reset contract and displays an error message.
19 end
Algorithm 3 describes the algorithm for consumers to pur-
chase agricultural food from retailers. First, the consumer’s
initial state is ReadyToBuy. Thanks to the successful dealings
between retailers and distributors, the smart contract state is
SaleRequestAgreedSuccess, while retailer status is AgriFood-
DeliveredSuccess. Similarly, smart contracts restrict cus-
tomers who register with retailer to make purchase requests.
The important parameters at this stage are customer address,
VOLUME 9, 2021
9303


【第9页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
retailer address, purchase date, sales ID, and AgriFood ID.
When consumers successfully pay agricultural food prices,
contract status changes to AgriFoodSoldToCustomer, retailer
status to SuccessfulPurchaseAgriFoodSaleSuccess, and cus-
tomer status to SuccessfulPurchase. If the payment is not
successful or the paid price is incorrect, the contract status
will be changed to SaleOfAgriFoodDenied, the retailer status
will be AgriFoodSaleFailure, and then the customer status
will be changed to FailedPurchase.
Algorithm 3 Customer Buys From Retailer
Input: Address of Retailer,
Address of Customer,
SalesID, AgriFoodID,
DatePurchased
1 Contractstate is SaleRequestAgreedSuccess
2 State of the retailer is AgriFoodDeliveredSuccess
3 Customer state is ReadyToBuy
4 Restrict access to only Customers
5 if Price = paid then
6
Contract state changes to AgriFoodSoldToCustomer
7
Change State of the retailer to
SuccessfulPurchaseAgriFoodSaleSuccess
8
Customer state is SuccessfulPruchase
9
Send a ‘purchase success’ notiﬁcation.
10 end
11 else
12
Contract state changes to SaleOfAgriFoodDenied
13
State of retailer is AgriFoodSaleFailure
14
Customer state is FailedPurchase
15
Send a ‘purchase failure’ notiﬁcation.
16 end
17 else
18
Reset contract and displays an error message.
19 end
VI. RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
A. APPLICATION EXAMPLE INTRODUCTION
Shanwei Lvfengyuan Modern Agriculture Development Co.,
Ltd., is committed to crop planting, processing, and agricul-
tural technology promotion services, etc. Based on this, on the
basis of the ﬁeld survey of the enterprise, a smart farm cloud
platform was built to manage and track the buckwheat supply
chain information. The system adopts browser/server (B/S)
structure, uses the VMware virtual machine to deploy the
blockchain network, and uses IPFS to store data with the
Hyperledger Fabric platform to realize distributed deploy-
ment. System development languages include Go, JavaScript,
HTML and CSS, with data processing and sending in
JSON format based on Nodejs and Bootstrap framework
development.
Fig. 8 shows the monitoring interface. Video monitoring
equipment and high-deﬁnition cameras are installed on the
farm. The administrator can remotely view and monitor the
FIGURE 8. Monitoring interface.
FIGURE 9. Traceability interface.
FIGURE 10. Traceability QR code.
crop situation and agricultural production situation in real
time. For the sake of reducing the use of agricultural pesti-
cides and ensuring the safety of agricultural food, the early
warning function for diseases and pests was designed.
An image recognition algorithm was adopted to match a large
number of image libraries of diseases and pests to quickly and
accurately identify pests for early warning and prevention.
Fig. 9 shows the crop traceability process, including
uploading crop information and creating a QR code and
attaching it to the crop package. When the crops are trans-
ported to the next link, the logistics manager can also check
them in the background, so as to clearly understand the ﬂow
direction of the crops. In case of any problems, crops can be
locate quickly and rapidly recalled, thus effectively avoiding
the spread of crops with problems and greater losses being
suffered by the enterprise.
The information on the ﬁnal product packaging purchased
by the consumer includes not only the product name, pro-
duction time and manufacturer’s name but also a pasted
9304
VOLUME 9, 2021


【第10页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
FIGURE 11. Tracing the specific information of buckwheat.
traceable QR code, such as the buckwheat traceability QR
code generated by the above platform as shown in Fig. 10.
Upon scanning the QR code, the information shown in Fig. 11
will appear, including planting information, farm infor-
mation, enterprise qualiﬁcation and on-link information,
etc. This platform can trace the entire life cycle of buck-
wheat from planting to consumer, and guarantee the con-
sumers’ right to know almost all information. The cultivation,
production
and
processing
of
transparent
buckwheat
increase the trust between consumers and enterprises. Mean-
while, the application of blockchain technology also pre-
vents data tampering. In general, the platform built based
on blockchain technology realizes buckwheat information
traceability, which increases the trust between consumers
and maximizes the interests of both sides while also
providing reference signiﬁcance for various researchers and
enterprises.
B. COST ANALYSIS AND PROBLEM DISCUSSION
Smart contracts in Ethereum exist in the form of accounts.
The successful deployment of a smart contract will create
a smart contract account. After that, the smart contract is
called, that is, a transaction is initiated to the smart con-
tract account, which consumes a number of gas. Gas is the
unit of calculation for all calculations in Ethereum. In [3]
and [29], the authours used Ethereum smart contracts to solve
the researched problems, and conducted detailed testing and
analysis. The results showed that the use of Ethereum smart
contracts can cost-savings and increase stakeholder proﬁts.
However, unlike the Ethereum smart contract, the Hyper-
ledger smart contract is directly deployed on each node with-
out built-in tokens, so it does not need to consume tokens to
terminate the execution of the smart contract. The payment
model of Ethereum can avoid the abuse of resources. Once
you have to pay for each operation, you will write the code
as concise and efﬁcient as possible; the existence of Gas can
also prevent attackers from ﬂooding the Ethereum network
through invalid operations (unless the attacker is willing to
pay a large sum of money to perform invalid operations), but
if the gas is consumed, the contract will fail to execute and the
consumed fee will not be refunded. The Hyperledger smart
contract uses a timer scheme, which uses time as a standard
to measure whether a contract has entered an inﬁnite loop: if
the contract has not terminated normally before the timeout
period is reached, then it is considered to have entered an inﬁ-
nite loop and forced to terminate. Therefore, the Hyperledger
smart contract can save resource consumption. Although the
timer can partially solve the downtime problem, in a dis-
tributed system, the execution time of each node may not
be guaranteed to be consistent, and the performance and
load of each node are different, resulting in the judgment
of whether the contract runs overtime. Inconsistencies occur,
which greatly increases the failure rate of the consensus
algorithm, which is an important disadvantage of the timer
solution.
In addition, smart contracts also have some common secu-
rity issues, which reduce the security guarantees for con-
structing agricultural food traceability systems. Firstly, smart
contracts cannot be modiﬁed once deployed, so they are vul-
nerable to security vulnerabilities. Secondly, the open source
code of smart contracts reduces the attack cost of hackers
and becomes vulnerable to attacks. Finally, due to the late
start and short development time of smart contracts, there are
still some shortcomings, such as the lack of rigorous code
will cause loopholes. Therefore, in the future, research can
be conducted on these security issues of smart contracts.
VII. CONCLUSION
We propose a framework for tracking and executing
transactions by using hyperledger smart contracts, which
changes the centralized model, eliminates intermediaries and
VOLUME 9, 2021
9305


【第11页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
intermediate nodes, and realizes the decentralized model of
the agricultural food supply chain, thus meeting the demand
for traceability of agricultural food. With respect to agricul-
tural food safety problems, this paper expounds the impor-
tance of food safety traceability, summarizes related research,
introduces blockchain and consortium chain, and presents a
framework using hyperledger smart contracts to track and
implement the agricultural food trade; it presents system
architecture design and describes the relationship between
the agricultural food supply chain entities and the interaction
between entities. In the end, the smart contracts algorithms
are implemented in order to realize tracking and tracing of the
agricultural food supply chain, and the practical application
in Shanwei Lvfengyuan Modern Agricultural Development
Co., Ltd., is introduced, cost analysis and problem discussion.
However, regarding the existing problems of blockchain scal-
ability, privacy and regulation, we have presented a solution
which does not take into account the reliability and auditabil-
ity of data transactions and payments, and with the develop-
ment of the agricultural food supply chain, the decentralized
automatic payment mechanism is needed to ensure that all
system entities abide by the promise of deﬁciencies in the
deal. As a goal of our future work, we plan to study related
problems and to be able to ameliorate and solve them.
REFERENCES
[1] X. Zhang, P. Sun, J. Xu, X. Wang, J. Yu, Z. Zhao, and Y. Dong,
‘‘Blockchain-based safety management system for the grain supply chain,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 36398–36410, 2020.
[2] K. Salah, N. Nizamuddin, R. Jayaraman, and M. Omar, ‘‘Blockchain-based
soybean traceability in agricultural supply chain,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7,
pp. 73295–73305, 2019.
[3] S. Wang, D. Li, Y. Zhang, and J. Chen, ‘‘Smart contract-based product
traceability system in the supply chain scenario,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7,
pp. 115122–115133, 2019.
[4] F.-F. Hu and Z.-H. Wu, ‘‘Research on grain supply chain mode innovation:
A case study of China non-primary grain-yielding areas,’’ in Proc. Int.
Conf. Manage. Service Sci., Aug. 2010, pp. 1–4.
[5] C. Chen, J. Zhang, and T. Delaurentis, ‘‘Quality control in food supply
chain management: An analytical model and case study of the adulter-
ated milk incident in China,’’ Int. J. Prod. Econ., vol. 152, pp. 188–199,
Jun. 2014.
[6] Y. P. Tsang, K. L. Choy, C. H. Wu, G. T. S. Ho, and H. Y. Lam,
‘‘Blockchain-driven IoT for food traceability with an integrated consensus
mechanism,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 129000–129017, 2019.
[7] X. Li, F. Lv, F. Xiang, Z. Sun, and Z. Sun, ‘‘Research on key technologies
of logistics information traceability model based on consortium chain,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 69754–69762, 2020.
[8] H. Xu, Q. He, X. Li, B. Jiang, and K. Qin, ‘‘BDSS-FA: A blockchain-
based data security sharing platform with ﬁne-grained access control,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 87552–87561, 2020.
[9] S. Li, T. Qin, and G. Min, ‘‘Blockchain-based digital forensics investiga-
tion framework in the Internet of Things and social systems,’’ IEEE Trans.
Comput. Social Syst., vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 1433–1441, Dec. 2019.
[10] L. Wang, Z. Hu, S. Liu, Z. Zheng, L. Cao, L. Xu, and X. Li, ‘‘Application
of non-orthogonal multiple access for IoT in food traceability system,’’ in
Proc. IEEE 4th Adv. Inf. Technol., Electron. Autom. Control Conf. (IAEAC),
vol. 1, Dec. 2019, pp. 104–109.
[11] J. Al-Jaroodi and N. Mohamed, ‘‘Blockchain in industries: A survey,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 36500–36515, 2019.
[12] B. Yong, J. Shen, X. Liu, F. Li, H. Chen, and Q. Zhou, ‘‘An intelligent
blockchain-based system for safe vaccine supply and supervision,’’ Int.
J. Inf. Manage., vol. 52, Jun. 2020, Art. no. 102024.
[13] G. Tripathi, M. A. Ahad, and S. Paiva, ‘‘S2HS—A blockchain based
approach for smart healthcare system,’’ Healthcare, vol. 8, no. 1,
Mar. 2020, Art. no. 100391.
[14] J. Chen, Z. Lv, and H. Song, ‘‘Design of personnel big data management
system based on blockchain,’’ Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 101,
pp. 1122–1129, Dec. 2019.
[15] M. Yang, T. Zhu, K. Liang, W. Zhou, and R. H. Deng, ‘‘A blockchain-based
location privacy-preserving crowdsensing system,’’ Future Gener. Comput.
Syst., vol. 94, pp. 408–418, May 2019.
[16] Z. Liu and Z. Li, ‘‘A blockchain-based framework of cross-border
e-commerce supply chain,’’ Int. J. Inf. Manage., vol. 52, Jun. 2020,
Art. no. 102059.
[17] G. Baralla, A. Pinna, and G. Corrias, ‘‘Ensure traceability in European food
supply chain by using a blockchain system,’’ in Proc. IEEE/ACM 2nd Int.
Workshop Emerg. Trends Softw. Eng. Blockchain (WETSEB), May 2019,
pp. 40–47.
[18] W. Yu and S. Huang, ‘‘Traceability of food safety based on block chain
and RFID technology,’’ in Proc. 11th Int. Symp. Comput. Intell. Design
(ISCID), vol. 1, Dec. 2018, pp. 339–342.
[19] F. Tian, ‘‘An agri-food supply chain traceability system for China based
on RFID & blockchain technology,’’ in Proc. 13th Int. Conf. Service Syst.
Service Manage. (ICSSSM), Jun. 2016, pp. 1–6.
[20] A. Vangala, A. K. Das, N. Kumar, and M. Alazab, ‘‘Smart secure sensing
for IoT-based agriculture: Blockchain perspective,’’ IEEE Sensors J., early
access, Jul. 27, 2020, doi: 10.1109/JSEN.2020.3012294.
[21] N. Bore, A. Kinai, P. Waweru, I. Wambugu, J. Mutahi, E. Kemunto,
R. Bryant, and K. Weldemariam, ‘‘ADW: Blockchain-enabled small-
scale farm digitization,’’ 2020, arXiv:2003.06862. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/2003.06862
[22] H. B. Li, B. Zhang, L. Zhang, Y. Xue, M. He, and C. Ren, ‘‘A food
traceability framework for dairy and other low-margin products,’’ IBM
J. Res. Develop., vol. 60, nos. 5–6, pp. 10.1–10.8, Sep./Nov. 2016.
[23] Z. De-An, T. Cui-Feng, and W. Xian-Wang, ‘‘Design of traceability system
for pork safety production based on RFID,’’ in Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Intell.
Comput. Technol. Autom., vol. 3, Oct. 2009, pp. 562–565.
[24] Z. Yiying, R. Yuanlong, L. Fei, S. Jing, and L. Song, ‘‘Research on meat
food traceability system based on RFID technology,’’ in Proc. IEEE 3rd
Inf. Technol., Netw., Electron. Autom. Control Conf. (ITNEC), Mar. 2019,
pp. 2172–2175.
[25] S. Mondal, K. P. Wijewardena, S. Karuppuswami, N. Kriti, D. Kumar, and
P. Chahal, ‘‘Blockchain inspired RFID-based information architecture for
food supply chain,’’ IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 5803–5813,
Jun. 2019.
[26] F. Tian, ‘‘A supply chain traceability system for food safety based on
HACCP, blockchain & Internet of Things,’’ in Proc. Int. Conf. Service Syst.
Service Manage., Jun. 2017, pp. 1–6.
[27] J. Hao, Y. Sun, and H. Luo, ‘‘A safe and efﬁcient storage scheme based
on blockchain and IPFS for agricultural products tracking,’’ J. Comput.,
vol. 29, no. 6, pp. 158–167, 2018.
[28] Q. Lin, H. Wang, X. Pei, and J. Wang, ‘‘Food safety traceability system
based on blockchain and EPCIS,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 20698–20707,
2019.
[29] I. A. Omar, R. Jayaraman, K. Salah, M. Debe, and M. Omar, ‘‘Enhancing
vendor managed inventory supply chain operations using blockchain smart
contracts,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 182704–182719, 2020.
[30] H. Zhang, E. Deng, H. Zhu, and Z. Cao, ‘‘Smart contract for secure billing
in ride-hailing service via blockchain,’’ Peer-Peer Netw. Appl., vol. 12,
no. 5, pp. 1346–1357, Sep. 2019.
[31] S. Xuan, L. Zheng, I. Chung, W. Wang, D. Man, X. Du, W. Yang,
and M. Guizani, ‘‘An incentive mechanism for data sharing based on
blockchain with smart contracts,’’ Comput. Electr. Eng., vol. 83, May 2020,
Art. no. 106587.
[32] R. Tso, Z.-Y. Liu, and J.-H. Hsiao, ‘‘Distributed E-voting and E-bidding
systems based on smart contract,’’ Electronics, vol. 8, no. 4, p. 422,
Apr. 2019.
[33] R. Kamath, ‘‘Food traceability on blockchain: Walmart’s pork and mango
pilots with IBM,’’ J. Brit. Blockchain Assoc., vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 1–12,
Jul. 2018.
[34] A. Shahid, A. Almogren, N. Javaid, F. A. Al-Zahrani, M. Zuair, and
M. Alam, ‘‘Blockchain-based agri-food supply chain: A complete solu-
tion,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 69230–69243, 2020.
[35] S. Wang, Y. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, ‘‘A blockchain-based framework for data
sharing with ﬁne-grained access control in decentralized storage systems,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 38437–38450, 2018.
9306
VOLUME 9, 2021


【第12页】
L. Wang et al.: Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability
[36] S. Zhang, M. Pu, B. Wang, and B. Dong, ‘‘A privacy protection scheme
of microgrid direct electricity transaction based on consortium blockchain
and continuous double auction,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 151746–151753,
2019.
[37] X. Zhang and D. Wang, ‘‘Adaptive trafﬁc signal control mechanism for
intelligent transportation based on a consortium blockchain,’’ IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 97281–97295, 2019.
[38] Z. Jin, R. Wu, X. Chen, and G. Li, ‘‘Charging guiding strategy for
electric taxis based on consortium blockchain,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7,
pp. 144144–144153, 2019.
[39] Z. Yu, D. Xue, J. Fan, and C. Guo, ‘‘DNSTSM: DNS cache resources
trusted sharing model based on consortium blockchain,’’ IEEE Access,
vol. 8, pp. 13640–13650, 2020.
[40] W. She, Z.-H. Gu, X.-K. Lyu, Q. Liu, Z. Tian, and W. Liu, ‘‘Homomor-
phic consortium blockchain for smart home system sensitive data privacy
preserving,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 62058–62070, 2019.
[41] X. Zeng, N. Hao, J. Zheng, and X. Xu, ‘‘A consortium blockchain paradigm
on hyperledger-based peer-to-peer lending system,’’ China Commun.,
vol. 16, no. 8, pp. 38–50, Aug. 2019.
[42] Y. Jiang and S. Ding, ‘‘A high performance consensus algorithm for
consortium blockchain,’’ in Proc. IEEE 4th Int. Conf. Comput. Commun.
(ICCC), Dec. 2018, pp. 2379–2386.
LU WANG received the bachelor’s degree from
the Zhujiang College, South China Agricultural
University, China, in 2018. She is currently pursu-
ing the master’s degree with the Zhongkai Univer-
sity of Agriculture and Engineering. Her current
research interests include blockchain technology,
the IoT technology, and traceability, among others.
LONGQIN XU received the M.S. degree from
the Faculty of Computer, Guangdong University
of Technology, in 2006. She is currently a Pro-
fessor with the College of Information Science
and Technology, Zhongkai University of Agricul-
ture and Engineering. Her main research interests
include intelligent information systems for agri-
culture, artiﬁcial intelligence, machine learning,
data mining, and computational intelligence.
ZHIYING ZHENG received the bachelor’s degree
from the Guangdong University of Education,
China, in 2016. She is currently pursuing the
master’s degree with the Zhongkai University of
Agriculture and Engineering. Her current research
interests include natural language processing,
knowledge graphs, and so on.
SHUANGYIN LIU received the Ph.D. degree
from the College of Information and Electri-
cal Engineering, China Agricultural University,
in 2014. He is currently a Professor with the
College of Information Science and Technology,
Zhongkai University of Agriculture and Engineer-
ing. His current research interests include intelli-
gent information systems for agriculture, artiﬁcial
intelligence, big data, software engineering, and
computational intelligence.
XIANGTONG LI received the bachelor’s degree
from the Hubei University of Science and Technol-
ogy, China, in 2018. He is currently pursuing the
master’s degree with the Zhongkai University of
Agriculture and Engineering. His current research
interests include deep learning, the IoT technol-
ogy, artiﬁcial intelligence, and so on.
LIANG CAO received the M.S. degree in com-
puter technology engineering from Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou, China, in 2008. He is cur-
rently an Engineer with the Zhongkai University
of Agriculture and Engineering, Guangzhou. His
research interests include computer technology
and the Internet of Things technology and appli-
cations.
JINGBIN LI received the Ph.D. degree in mechan-
ical and electronic engineering from China Agri-
cultural University, in 2013. He is currently a
Professor and a Ph.D. Supervisor of agricultural
engineering with the School of Mechanical and
Electrical Engineering, Shihezi University. His
research interests include agricultural machinery
equipment innovation and performance design,
image information acquisition, and processing.
CHUANHENG SUN received the Ph.D. degree in
information technology in agriculture from China
Agriculture University, Beijing, China, in 2012.
He is currently a Researcher with the National
Engineering Research Center for Information
Technology in Agriculture, Beijing. His research
interests include food traceability, blockchain
technology, and the Internet of Things technology
and applications.
VOLUME 9, 2021
9307

