[1]李富强,张路.基于汽车生态圈的区块链应用模型构建研究[J].专用汽车,2024,(11):64-66.
摘要:将区块链技术引入汽车生态圈，构建了基于区块链的应用模型。通过分析汽车生态圈运作特点，设计了模型框架和核心功能模块，并重点阐述了数据安全、供应链追溯、车辆数据共享等模块的技术实现路径。在二手车交易场景中，实证分析表明，区块链模型在提升交易效率、优化用户体验、确保数据真实性等方面效果显著。研究表明，区块链技术与汽车产业的深度融合，为汽车生态圈各参与主体建立起可信协同机制，助力汽车行业实现数字化转型升级，开启数据价值释放与智慧共享的新时代。
[2]赵阳,孟慧敏.我国重要产品追溯体系建设实践和对策建议[J].轻工标准与质量,2024,(05):131-134.
摘要:经济全球化发展，促使全球工业产品领域的竞争进一步加剧，对于工业产品的监管也不断加强，工业发达国家对工业产品质量安全追溯日趋重视。通过梳理政府部门、地方政府及社会组织重点产品质量安全追溯相关政策制定及实施情况，总结归纳我国产品质量安全追溯工作开展现状及面临的问题，提出开展重点产品追溯建设工作的对策建议。
[3]王家峰.基于混合算法的互联网访问用户身份认证方法[J].齐齐哈尔大学学报(自然科学版),2024,40(03):5-10.
摘要:提出基于混合算法的互联网访问用户身份认证方法，结合域内联盟链和跨域联盟链，建立教育区块链身份认证框架。在认证架构中设置固定的权威节点后，结合无证书签名以及哈希函数，完成机构节点、用户节点的合理注册。建立基于混合算法的安全认证机制，首先应用国密算法中的SM4算法（SM4分组密码算法）产生一个初始密钥；然后利用SM2算法（SM2椭圆曲线公钥密码算法）对密钥数据进一步处理，获取可以用于身份认证的随机密钥；最后，以云计算为核心的认证服务器的作用下，对互联网访问用户身份进行阶段认证。实验结果表明，在并发用户数量为300时，所提方法的互联网访问用户身份认证响应时间仅为2.85 s，满足实时性要求。
[4]倪雪莉,马卓,王群.区块链P2P网络及安全研究[J].计算机工程与应用,2024,60(05):17-29.
摘要:区块链作为一种分布式账本、密码学、共识算法、P2P(peer-to-peer)网络等多技术创新融合的技术，在一个节点之间互不信任的开放环境中实现了去中心化、防篡改、可溯源等功能，改变了一直困扰传统中心化服务架构的信任建立、安全管理与隐私保护等难题，引起了社会各领域的广泛关注。其中，P2P网络通过共识算法实现了分布式账本的最终一致性，并利用各种协议协调各节点提供的服务，其应用功能随着区块链技术的每一次迭代不断丰富和完善，从而形成了相对独立的区块链P2P网络，成为区块链研究的重点。较为系统地介绍了P2P网络的特征和关键技术，尤其对影响着区块链的P2P覆盖网络、资源查询和网络抖动等技术进行了深入分析；结合典型区块链应用场景，从体系结构和协议实现入手分析了区块链P2P网络的工作机制和运行特点；介绍了区块链P2P网络存在的安全风险，讨论了典型攻击的实施过程及防范方法。最后，总结探索了区块链网络及其安全面临的挑战和主要技术应对。
[5]Tabatabaei Mohammad Hossein,Vitenberg Roman,Veeraragavan Narasimha Raghavan.Understanding blockchain: Definitions, architecture, design, and system comparison[J].Computer Science Review,2023,50
摘要:The explosive advent of the blockchain technology has led to hundreds of blockchain systems in the industry, thousands of academic papers published over the last few years, and an even larger number of new initiatives and projects. Despite the emerging consolidation efforts, the area remains highly turbulent without systematization, educational materials, or cross-system comparative analysis.(#br)In this paper, we provide a systematic and comprehensive study of four popular yet widely different blockchain systems: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric, and IOTA. The study is presented as a cross-system comparison, which is organized by clearly identified aspects: definitions, roles of the participants, entities, and the characteristics and design of each of the commonly used layers in the cross-system blockchain architecture. Our exploration goes deeper compared to what is currently available in academic surveys and tutorials. For example, we provide the first extensive coverage of the storage layer in Ethereum and the most comprehensive explanation of the consensus protocol in IOTA. The exposition is due to the consolidation of fragmented information gathered from white and yellow papers, academic publications, blogs, developer documentation, communication with the developers, as well as additional analysis gleaned from the source code. We hope that this survey will help the readers gain in-depth understanding of the design principles behind blockchain systems and contribute towards systematization of the area.
[6]王晶宇,马兆丰,徐单恒,段鹏飞.支持国密算法的区块链交易数据隐私保护方案[J].信息网络安全,2023,23(03):84-95.
摘要:随着区块链技术的发展,链上数据共享越来越重要。当前区块链交易数据在链上公开透明,存在隐私数据共享受限问题,而且Hyperledger Fabric平台缺乏国密算法的支持,在国内应用中受限。文章首先采用国密算法改造Hyperledger Fabric平台；然后提出交易数据隐私保护方案,以国密算法完成对交易数据的安全和限时共享；最后对改造的Hyperledger Fabric平台和提出的方案做系统实现和性能测试。实验结果表明,文章方法实现了对Hyperledger Fabric平台的国密改造,该方案的执行效率和系统性能均满足实际需求。
[8]王新庄.食品安全问题探讨及法律规制研究——评《食品安全法原理》[J].食品安全质量检测学报,2022,13(17):5769.
摘要:<正>“民以食为天”充分彰显出食品在人们日常生活中所占据的重要地位，近年来，不断曝光的食品安全问题引发了群众担忧，比如地沟油、瘦肉精、三鹿奶粉和老坛酸菜等。人们越来越关注食品生产加工流程中涉及到的安全问题。食品安全问题是事关民生的重大社会问题，需要借助法律来保障食品安全，因此，我国相关部门高度重视食品安全领域方面的立法建设。我国食品安全领域的法律保障主要依托《中华人民共和国食品安全法》，但随着食品产业飞速发展，
[9]刘丁宁.基于国密SM2批量验签的区块链系统的研究与应用[D].导师：袁玉宇.北京邮电大学,2022.
摘要:随着比特币的兴起,区块链技术渐渐为人们所使用并重视起来。即便如此,作为一种分布式账本平台,传统区块链技术仍存在一些性能问题亟待解决。如何实现高性能区块链系统,也成为行业探索的目标之一。2018年,我国发布《金融分布式账本技术规范》明确指出分布式账本系统所使用的具体密码算法应符合国密相关标准。结合国内相关研究现状,国密区块链技术仍有较长的路要走。为了实现符合国密标准的高性能区块链系统,本文提出了基于国密SM2批量验签的区块链系统。本文首先介绍了什么是区块链技术,分析了针对区块链技术的相关研究中的痛点,同时介绍了国密算法及数字签名批验签算法的研究现状。然后提出了国密SM2数字签名批验签算法,描述了在单签名者和多签名者的条件下,批验签算法的表现。随后介绍了基于SM2批验签算法的区块链交易确认模型,模型由线程池、分组器、触发器、验签器、纠错器组成,批验签触发条件分为计时触发、计数触发、容量触发三种模式。文章通过实验分析了模型的特征,并对模型进行调整。通过再次对改进后的模型进行实验分析,最终结果表明,改进后的区块链交易模型可以有效提高系统吞吐率,并且可以根据实际应用的需求,灵活配置。最后在上述研究成果的基础上,完成了一个基于国密SM2批验签的区块链交易系统。
[10]Dey Somdip,Saha Suman,Singh Amit Kumar,McDonaldMaier Klaus.SmartNoshWaste: Using Blockchain, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing and QR Code to Reduce Food Waste in Decentralized Web 3.0 Enabled Smart Cities[J].Smart Cities,2022,5(1):
摘要:Food waste is an important social and environmental issue that the current society faces, where one third of the total food produced is wasted or lost every year while more than 820 million people around the world do not have access to adequate food. However, as we move towards a decentralized Web 3.0 enabled smart city, we can utilize cutting edge technologies such as blockchain, artificial intelligence, cloud computing and many more to reduce food waste in different phases of the supply chain. In this paper, we propose SmartNoshWaste—a blockchain based multi-layered framework utilizing cloud computing, QR code and reinforcement learning to reduce food waste. We also evaluate SmartNoshWaste on real world food data collected from the nosh app to show the efficacy of the proposed framework and we are able to reduce food waste by 9.46% in comparison to the originally collected food data based on the experimental evaluation.
[11]Lu Yi,Li Peng,Xu He.A Food anti-counterfeiting traceability system based on Blockchain and Internet of Things[J].Procedia Computer Science,2022,199
摘要:In this paper, a food anti-counterfeiting traceability system based on blockchain and the Internet of Things is proposed in response to the problems of data centre-based storage, easy data tampering and data silos in traditional food anti-counterfeiting traceability technology. The system makes use of the decentralized storage and untamperable characteristics of blockchain technology to store traceability data of food in the process of food production, sale and transportation, so as to ensure the uniqueness of food. At the same time, through the Internet of things technology to ensure the authenticity and reliability of the source data of the blockchain. The experimental results show that the system has higher security, lower transaction delay and lower communication cost.
[12]Jin Hai,Xiao Jiang.Towards trustworthy blockchain systems in the era of “Internet of value”: development, challenges, and future trends[J].Science China Information Sciences,2021,65(5):
摘要:Since the advent of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, blockchain, as their underlying technologies, has drawn a massive amount of attention from both academia and the industry. This ever-evolving technology inherits the “genes” of distributed systems, offering significant advantages of immutability, transparency, auditability, and tamper-resistance. These benefits help blockchain re-establish public confidence, and hold the significant promise of reliable information sharing and value transfer. Therefore, blockchain has become the foundation of crucial strategic deployments in countries across the world, and the fundamental basis for building the next generation Web 3.0 — “Internet of value”. In this article, we will start with unraveling the essential ingredients of blockchain technology, and showing the characteristics of each of these ingredients in the context of distributed systems. We will then present the core technical challenges that need to be addressed prior to unleashing its full potential, including its performance, scalability, and cross-chain interoperability. Finally, we will introduce the recent developments of blockchain systems, and discuss the future trends of the blockchain ecosystem.
[13]Monteiro Emiliano Soares,da Rosa Righi Rodrigo,Barbosa Jorge Luis Victória,Alberti Antônio Marcos.APTM: A Model for Pervasive Traceability of Agrochemicals[J].Applied Sciences,2021,11(17):
摘要:As the world population increases and the need for food monoculture farms are using more and more agrochemicals, there is also an increase in the possibility of theft, misuse, environmental damage, piracy of products, and health problems. This article addresses these issues by introducing the agrochemical pervasive traceability model (APTM), which integrates machine learning, sensors, microcontrollers, gamification, and two blockchains. It contributes in two dimensions: (I) the study of the environmental, product piracy and regulatory of agrochemical control; (II) the technological dimension: application of an adequate set of sensors collecting multiple data; modeling and implementation of a system via machine learning for analyzing and predicting the behavior and use of agrochemicals; development of a scoring system via gamification for reverse use of agrochemicals; and presenting a record of transactions in a consortium of two blockchains, simultaneously. Its main advantage is to be a flexible, adaptable, and expansive model. Results indicated that the model has positive aspects, from detecting the agrochemical, its handling, and disposal, recording of transactions, and data visualization along the reverse supply chain. This study obtained a round trip time of 0.510 ms on average; data transfers between layer one and its persistence in the database were between 4 to 5 s. Thus, blockchain nodes consumed only 34 to 38% of CPU and recorded transactions between 2 to 4 s. These results point to a horizon of applicability in real situations within agricultural farms.
[14]Yiu Neo C. K..Decentralizing Supply Chain Anti-Counterfeiting and Traceability Systems Using Blockchain Technology[J].Future Internet,2021,13(4):
摘要:An interesting research problem in the supply chain industry is evaluating and determining the provenance of physical goods—demonstrating the authenticity of luxury goods such as bottled wine. However, many supply chain systems and networks have been built and implemented with centralized system architecture, relying on centralized authorities or any form of intermediary, and leading to issues such as single-point processing, storage and failure, which could be susceptible to malicious modifications to product records or various potential attacks to system components by dishonest participant nodes traversing along the supply chain. Blockchain technology has evolved from merely being a decentralized, distributed and immutable ledger of cryptocurrency transactions to a programmable interactive environment for building decentralized and reliable applications addressing different use-cases and existing problems in the world. In this research, with a chosen research method of proof-by-demonstration, the Decentralized NFC-Enabled Anti-Counterfeiting System (dNAS) is proposed and developed, decentralizing a legacy anti-counterfeiting system of the supply-chain industry using Blockchain technology to facilitate trustworthy data provenance retrieval, verification and management, as well as strengthening the capability of the product’s anti-counterfeiting and traceability qualities in the wine industry, with the capacity to further extend this to the supply chain industry as a whole. The proposed dNAS utilizes a decentralized blockchain network with a consensus protocol compatible with the concept of enterprise blockchain, programmable smart contracts and a distributed file storage system to develop a secure and immutable scientific-data provenance tracking and management platform on which provenance records, providing compelling properties of the data integrity of luxurious goods, are recorded, verified and validated automatically.
[15]Dey Somdip,Saha Suman,Singh Amit Kumar,McDonaldMaier Klaus.FoodSQRBlock: Digitizing Food Production and the Supply Chain with Blockchain and QR Code in the Cloud[J].Sustainability,2021,13(6):
摘要:Food safety is an important issue in today’s world. The traditional agri-food production system does not offer easy traceability of the produce at any point of the supply chain, and hence, during a food-borne outbreak, it is very difficult to sift through food production data to track produce and the origin of the outbreak. In recent years, the blockchain based food production system has resolved this challenge; however, none of the proposed methodologies makes the food production data easily accessible, traceable and verifiable by consumers or producers using mobile/edge devices. In this paper, we propose FoodSQRBlock (Food Safety Quick Response Block), a blockchain technology based framework that digitises the food production information and makes it easily accessible, traceable and verifiable by the consumers and producers by using QR codes. We also propose a large-scale integration of FoodSQRBlock in the cloud to show the feasibility and scalability of the framework, as well as give an experimental evaluation to prove this.
[16]曹琪,阮树骅,陈兴蜀,兰晓,张红霞,金泓键.Hyperledger Fabric平台的国密算法嵌入研究[J].网络与信息安全学报,2021,7(01):65-75.
摘要:Hyperledger Fabric是为企业级商用区块链项目提供支撑的且可扩展的联盟链平台,密码算法为该平台的核心,保证上链数据的安全和不可篡改,但原始Fabric平台缺乏对国密算法的支持。因此,设计并实现了Fabric平台的国密算法的嵌入和支持。首先,通过分析Fabric平台中组件间交互逻辑和密码算法的调用场景,提出了在该平台嵌入国密支持的设计思路;其次,基于同济开源国密实现源码,为Fabric平台BCCSP添加SM2、SM3和SM4算法模块与接口;再次,将Fabric平台的各组件上层应用的密码算法调用接口与对应国密算法接口相关联,实现上层应用对国密算法调用的支持;最后,通过创建fabric-gm联盟链测试实例验证Fabric平台中嵌入的国密算法模块和接口的正确性及有效性,并与原生Fabric平台镜像构建的测试实例进行了性能比较。实验结果表明,嵌入的国密算法模块和接口可用、正确且生成的国密证书有效,与原生Fabric平台镜像相比,网络启动时间增加3%,毫秒级单位下的交易时间开销增加1倍,动态证书生成时间增加9%,各项性能指标均在可接受范围内。
[17]Wang Lu,Xu Longqin,Zheng Zhiying,Liu Shuangyin,Li Xiangtong,Cao Liang,Li Jingbin,Sun Chuanheng.Smart Contract-Based Agricultural Food Supply Chain Traceability[J].IEEE ACCESS,2021,9
摘要:The complexity of a supply chain makes product safety or quality issues extremely difficult to track, especially for the basic agricultural food supply chains of people's daily diets. The existing agricultural food supply chains present several major problems, such as numerous participants, inconvenient communication caused by long supply chain cycles, data distrust between participants and the centralized system. The emergence of blockchain technology effectively solves the pain-point problem existing in the traceability system of agricultural food supply chains. This paper proposes a framework based on the consortium and smart contracts to track and trace the workflow of agricultural food supply chains, implement traceability and shareability of supply chains, and break down the information islands between enterprises as much as possible to eliminate the need for the central institutions and agencies and improve the integrity of the transaction records, reliability and security. At the same time, farmers record details of the environment and crop growth data in the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) and store file IPFS hashes in smart contracts, which not only increases data security but also alleviates the blockchain storage explosion problem. This framework has been applied in Shanwei Lvfengyuan Modern Agricultural Development Co., Ltd. Although there are still many defects, the framework has successfully realized functions such as disintermediation and tracing of agricultural product information through QR codes. Thus, the framework proposed in this paper is of great significance and reference value for enterprises to ensure product quality and safety traceability.
[18]Hu Sensen,Huang Shan,Huang Jing,Su Jiafu.Blockchain and Edge Computing Technology Enabling Organic Agricultural Supply Chain: A Framework Solution to Trust Crisis[J].Computers & Industrial Engineering,2020,(prepublish):
摘要:The credibility of information on organic agri-products has always blocked the participation of small and medium-sized farms in high value-added agriculture. However, the inherent characteristics of the organic agricultural supply chain (OASC)?such as centralization, monopoly, and asymmetry?have repeatedly plunged OASC into the predicament of information non-transparency. Ultimately, it results in a severe trust crisis of consumers. Fortunately, the emerging blockchain and edge computing technology probably raise an opportunity to improve this issue. Despite the overwhelming advantage (such as tamper-resistant, trust-free, transparent, decentralized, and immutable), this technology has to overcome the imperfection of cost and efficiency before it can be employed by OASC, particularly for geographically dispersed small and medium-sized farms in remote areas.In this paper, we first leverage the immutability of blockchain and the paradigm of edge computing to construct an OASC’s trust framework, which has a much better trade-off between cost and efficiency. Further, according to the scenarios of OASC, we divide all the stakeholders into four roles, proposing a novel consensus mechanism to manage the information flow. The evaluation results demonstrate that our proposal can significantly achieve the performance improvement as well as the cost decline compared to the traditional approach. This framework will also make affordable traceability solutions for those in developing countries at a low cost in the future.
[19]朱祉琴.浅谈食品卫生法与安全现状分析[J].食品安全导刊,2020,(18):38-39.
摘要:现在我国的食品行业发展速度较快,食品隐患逐渐暴露在民众面前,严重影响到大众的食品健康安全。造成这样的局面有着多方面的因素,从食品安全标准与食品检验法律法规不完善,到生产商不履行社会义务和道德责任,安全监督管理部门的执法疏忽,再到消费者的维权意识缺乏。在不断健全卫生法律体系的途中,可以借鉴一下国际经验,从而使我国食品安全行业稳步前进。
[20]司冰茹, 肖江, 刘存扬, et al. 区块链网络综述[J]. 软件学报, 2024, 35(2): 773-799.
摘要：区块链是典型的分布式系统,底层网络的性能和安全性至关重要.区块链网络的本质是P2P网络,然而在安全模型、传输协议和性能指标等方面与传统P2P网络存在明显差异.首先,针对区块链网络的传输流程进行全面、深入地分析,阐明区块链网络所面临的瓶颈挑战.其次,针对区块链网络拓扑结构和传输协议的最新研究工作,从节点异构性、编码方案、广播算法和中继网络等方面系统性地分类梳理,并归纳总结跨链网络实现和网络仿真工具.最后,探讨区块链网络的未来研究趋势.
[21]吴三斌. 基于区块链的农产品溯源系统研究[J]. 南方农机, 2025, 56 (10): 15-18.
摘要:随着食品安全问题日益受到重视，农产品溯源已成为公众关注的焦点。传统的农产品溯源系统数据共享程度低、信息透明度不足、缺乏统一标准，而区块链技术在农产品溯源系统中可提高系统的可扩展性和安全性，确保溯源信息的真实性和可信度。基于此，文章综述了基于区块链的农产品溯源系统的相关研究，从区块链技术的基本原理、农产品溯源系统的构建、区块链技术在农产品溯源系统中的应用以及存在的问题和挑战等方面进行了详细的分析和讨论。研究结果表明，基于区块链的农产品溯源系统可实现农产品信息去中心化、不可篡改和透明公开，实现农产品从生产、加工到销售的全程可追溯，提高了农产品的安全性和可靠性，增强了消费者的信任。然而，该系统在处理速度、隐私保护、成本和技术融合上仍面临挑战。随着技术的不断进步和优化，未来区块链溯源系统将在农产品行业中得到更广泛的应用，促进行业健康发展，为消费者提供更加安全、可靠和高质量的农产品。
