[1]Patan Mushiya Katoon, Anil V Turukmane. Interoperable blockchain network for healthcare data using Fabric, Ethereum and IPFS[J]. Discover Artificial Intelligence, 2025, 5 (1):
摘要:Electronic Health Records (EHR) is the main core of modern healthcare, but interoperability across different blockchain platforms is a key challenge. This work proposes a cross-chain middleware architecture, which facilitates secure and real-time synchronization of EHR data between Hyperledger Fabric (private blockchain) and Ethereum Sepolia Testnet (public blockchain). The framework integrates AES-256 encryption and Inter Planetary File System (IPFS) as decentralized storage to enhance patient privacy. To facilitate interoperability across the blockchains the research introduces a smart middleware layer. This layer autonomously monitors the blockchain events, processes encrypted CIDs, enforces real time cross chain consistency and smart contract-based access control. The experimental evaluation shows that proposed framework achieves low synchronization times (< 195 ms), low gas and latency costs, small encryption overhead (< 4–5 KB), robust file storage and retrieval through IPFS. Such positive evaluations w...

[4]Hend Abdul Ameer Hadi, Rana Fareed Ghani. The Future of E-Health: Blockchain Solutions with Hyperledger Fabric and IPFS[J]. Ingénierie des Systèmes d’Information, 2025, 30 (1):
摘要:The electronic representation of a patient's medical information is called an electronic health record, or EHR. Normally, these records are kept on cloud-based or central servers. Blockchain technology is a new technology used to solve security and privacy problems of EHR data in a decentralized way. Hence, they are accessible to authorized health providers for better management of patient care. Building secure e-health systems with public blockchains such as Ethereum faces several problems. The main issue is that these blockchains are permissionless; everybody can join in and obtain access to the data, which becomes a cause of significant privacy concerns. This research proposes a private and decentralized e-healthcare system using Hyperledger Fabric and the Interplanetary File System (IPFS) for securely and effectively storing and retrieving EHRs. Privacy and security are guaranteed with Hyperledger Fabric in ensuring that only authorized parties can access sensitive medical information. The system is furth..


[5]Feng Wen, Zhuo Wang, Leda Qu, Haixin Huang, Xiaojie Hu. Enhancing secure multi-group data sharing through integration of IPFS and hyperledger fabric.[J]. PeerJ. Computer science, 2024, 10
摘要:Data sharing is increasingly important across various industries. However, issues such as data integrity verification during sharing, encryption key leakage, and difficulty sharing data between different user groups have been identified. To address these challenges, this study proposes a multi-group data sharing network model based on Consortium Blockchain and IPFS for P2P sharing. This model uses a dynamic key encryption algorithm to provide secure data sharing, avoiding the problems associated with existing data transmission techniques such as key cracking or data leakage due to low security and reliability. Additionally, the model establishes an IPFS network for users within the group, allowing for the generation of data probes to verify data integrity, and the use of the Fabric network to record log information and probe data related to data operations and encryption. Data owners retain full control over access to their data to ensure privacy and security. The experimental results show that the system pro...

