
[1]  Marchese Angelo,Tomarchio Orazio. A Blockchain-Based System for Agri-Food Supply Chain Traceability Management[J].SN Computer Science,2022,3(4):
  摘要:Ensuring high quality and safety of food products has become a key factor on one hand to protect and improve consumers health and, on the other one, to gain market share. For this reason, much effort in the last year has been devoted to the development of integrated and innovative Agriculture and Food (Agri-Food) supply chains management systems, which should be responsible, in addition to track and store orders and deliveries, to guarantee transparency and traceability of the food production and transformation process. In this paper, differently from traditional supply chains which are based on centralized systems, we propose a fully distributed approach, based on blockchain technology, to define a supply chain management system able to provide quality, integrity and traceability of the entire supply chain process. The proposed framework is based on the Hyperledger Fabric technology, which is a permissioned blockchain system: a prototype has been developed and, by using some use cases, we show the effectiven...

[2]  Wang Lixing,He Yulin,Wu Zhenning. Design of a Blockchain-Enabled Traceability System Framework for Food Supply Chains[J].Foods,2022,11(5):
  摘要:Tracing food products along the entire supply chain is important for achieving better management of food products. Traditionally, centralized traceability systems have been developed for such purposes. One major drawback of this approach is that different users of the supply chain have their own systems with their own complexities and distinct features; thus, the interaction among them creates challenges when implementing a single centralized system. Therefore, a decentralized traceability system is favorable for tracing food products along the supply chain. In this study, we develop a supply chain traceability system framework based on blockchain and radio frequency identification (RFID) technology. The system consists of a decentralized blockchain-enabled data storage platform for data management and an RFID system at the packaging level for data collection and storage. We applied a consortium blockchain to the application. Fabric 2.0 in Hyperledger was chosen as the development platform. The proposed block...

[3]  Yao Qi,Zhang Huajun. Improving Agricultural Product Traceability Using Blockchain[J].Sensors,2022,22(9):
  摘要:Most traditional agricultural traceability systems are centralized, which could result in the low reliability of traceability results, enterprise privacy data leakage vulnerabilities, and the generation of information islands. To solve the above problems, we propose a trusted agricultural product traceability system based on the Ethereum blockchain in this paper. We designed a dual storage model of “Blockchain+IPFS (InterPlanetary File System)” to reduce the storage pressure of the blockchain and realize efficient information queries. Additionally, we propose a data privacy protection solution based on some cryptographic primitives and the Merkle Tree that can avoid enterprise privacy and sensitive data leakage. Furthermore, we implemented the proposed system using the Ethereum blockchain platform and provided the cost, performance, and security analysis, as well as compared it with the existing solutions. The results showed that the proposed system is both efficient and feasible and can meet the practical ap...

[4]  Li Yue,Zhang Xin,Zhao Zhiyao,Xu Jiping,Jiang Zixuan,Yu Jiabin,Cui Xiaoyu. Research on Grain Food Blockchain Traceability Information Management Model Based on Master-Slave Multichain[J].Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience,2022,2022
  摘要:Aiming at the problems such as slow traceability efficiency, poor sharing, and the difficulty of matching the throughput of a blockchain single chain structure due to the complexity of the grain food supply chain links, the large number of participants, and the large amount of data information, this paper proposes a grain food blockchain traceability information management model based on the master-slave multichain structure by analyzing the processes and data characteristics of each link in the grain food supply chain; on this basis, the PLEW consensus algorithm based on Raft + improved PoW algorithm is designed for the master chain, and the CI-PBFT consensus algorithm based on trusted information degree is designed for the slave chain. The master chain and slave chain are anchored to each other through hash locking, and the data is uploaded and queried through smart contracts. In order to verify the effectiveness of the model, the blockchain traceability system is designed and implemented based on Hyperledg...

[5]  Subashini Babu,Hemavathi Devarajan. Agro-Food Supply Chain Traceability using Blockchain and IPFS[J].International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications (IJACSA),2023,14(1):
  摘要:Many blockchain initiatives significantly use the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) to store user data off-chain. The centralized administration, ambiguous data, unreliable data, and ease of creating information islands are all issues with traditional traceability systems. This study develops a monitoring system using blockchain technology to record and inquire about product information in the supply network of Non-Perishable (NP) agro goods to address the above issues. The transparency and trustworthiness of traceability data were considerably improved by employing blockchain technology's distributed, tamper-proof, and traceable properties. To alleviate the strain on the blockchain and enable efficient information inquiry, a storage structure is built in which both public and private data are stored in the blockchain and the Inter Planetary File System (IPFS) using cryptography. Because of its ability to trace the origin of food, blockchain technology contributes to the development of reliable food supply ch...

[6]  Shaohua Wang,Na Luo,Bin Xing,Zhenzhen Sun,Hang Zhang,Chuanheng Sun. Blockchain-based proxy re-encryption access control method for biological risk privacy protection of agricultural products[J].Scientific Reports,2024,14(1):
  摘要:In today’s globalized agricultural system, information leakage of agricultural biological risk factors can lead to business risks and public panic, jeopardizing corporate reputation. To solve the above problems, this study constructs a blockchain network for agricultural product biological risk traceability based on agricultural product biological risk factor data to achieve traceability of biological risk traceability data of agricultural product supply chain to meet the sustainability challenges. To guarantee the secure and flexible sharing of agricultural product biological risk privacy information and limit the scope of privacy information dissemination, the blockchain-based proxy re-encryption access control method (BBPR-AC) is designed. Aiming at the problems of proxy re-encryption technology, such as the third-party agent being prone to evil, the authorization judgment being cumbersome, and the authorization process not automated, we design the proxy re-encryption access control mechanism based on the ...

[7]  Li Li,Pengbo Tian,Jiapeng Dai,Fengjuan Miao. Design of agricultural product traceability system based on blockchain and RFID.[J].Scientific reports,2024,14(1):
  摘要:Ensuring the traceability of agricultural products is essential for quality control and food safety. Recent technological advances have provided new ways to enhance traceability systems. This study aims to use blockchain technology, centralized database and RFID tags to develop a secure agricultural product traceability system, retain the detailed information of agricultural products traceability, ensure that the summary information of agricultural products on the chain cannot be modified, and optimize the SM3 algorithm to effectively summarize the traceability data and improve the efficiency of the system. The aggregated data is time-stamped, recorded on the blockchain, and written into an RFID tag. The optimization of the SM3 algorithm improved the efficiency by 30% and reduced the execution time of 192-byte messages to 210µs. The system ensures accurate linking of traceability data through secure data retention and unalterable summaries on the blockchain. The integrated use of blockchain, centralized datab...

[8]  Hongyan Guo,Wei Xu,Mingxia Lin,Xingguo Zhang,Pingzeng Liu. Design of a Blockchain-Enabled Traceability System for Pleurotus ostreatus Supply Chains[J].Foods,2025,14(22):
  摘要:Pleurotus ostreatus is valued for its nutritional, medicinal, economic, and ecological benefits and is widely used in the food, pharmaceutical, and environmental protection industries. Pleurotus ostreatus, as a highly perishable edible fungus, faces significant challenges in supply chain quality control and food safety due to its short shelf life. As consumer demand for food freshness and full traceability increases, there is an urgent need to establish a reliable traceability system that enables real-time monitoring, spoilage prevention, and quality assurance. This study focuses on the Pleurotus ostreatus supply chain and designs and implements a multi-role flexible traceability system that integrates blockchain and the Internet of Things. The system collects key production and storage environment parameters in real time through sensor networks and enhances data accuracy and robustness using an improved adaptive weighted fusion algorithm, enabling precise monitoring of the growth environment and quality risk...

